CAPITOL HILL, PRESIDENT OBAMA
LAUNCHES A WIDE-RANGING CAMPAIGN
TO WIN PUBLIC AND CONGRESSIONAL
SUPRT FPOOR HIS PLAN TO STRIKE
SYRIA.
>> THE PRESIDENT MADE HIS CASE.
>> MY INTENTIONS THROUGHOUT THIS
PROCESS HAS BEEN TO ENSURE THAT
THE BLATANT USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS THAT WE SOUGHT DOESN'T
HAPPEN AGAIN.
IF, IN FACT, THERE'S A WAY TO
ACCOMPLISH THAT DIPLOMATICALLY
THAT IS OVERWHELMINGLY MY
PREFERENCE.
>> IN
>> Woodruff: IN DAMASCUS,
PRESIDENT ASSAD SAID THE U.S. IS
LNG WYIHEN IT CLAIMS HE'S GASSED
HIS OWN PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: ASSAD'S FULL
CONVERSATION WITH CHARLIE ROSE
AIRS LATER TONIGHT ON PBS.
WE'LL TALK TO CHARLIE ABOUT IT
IN A FEW MINUTES.
>> Ifill: WE'LL HAVE REACTION TO
BOTH INTERVIEWS IN TONIGHT'S
PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: ALSO, OPENING THE
DOORS OF THE NATION'S MOST ELITE
COLLEGES TO ALL.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT A PROGRAM
FOR STUDENTS FROM LOW-INCOME
FAMILIES.
>> MY PARENTS ALWAYS SAID THAT
THESE SCHOOLS WERE FOR THE RICH
PEOPLE THAT COULD AFFORD IT.
>> GOOD EVENING
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: ON THIS FIRST NIGHT
OF THE NEW PBS NEWSHOUR, WE HAVE
A LOT OF NEWS FOR YOU.
>> Ifill: WE ALSO HAVE A NEW
LOOK, BUT JUDY AND I WILL BE
BRINGING YOU THE NEWS AND
ANALYSIS YOU HAVE COME TO TRUST.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT OUR LEAD
STORY IS SYRIA, WHERE
DEVELOPMENTS HAVE BEEN MOVING
FAST.
>> FROM DA DAMASCUS, A WARNING M
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
>> FOR THIS, EVERYTHING IS ON
THE BRINK OF EXPLOSION.
>> AS SAWED LDTO INTERVIEWER
CHARLIE ROSE OF PBS AND CBS, THE
CLAIMS HIS REGIME USED POISON
GAS ARE LIES AND HE ISSUE ADD
VEILED THREAT ABOUT FALLOUT FROM
MY U.S. MILITARY STRIKES.
>> SYRIA IS LINKED AND WHATEVER
YOU WANT TO CALL IT, IF YOU
STRIKE SOMEWHERE YOU HAVE TO
EXPECT A PRECAUTION IN A
DIFFERENT FORM.
>> U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY DISMISSED THE WARNING
DURING A STOP IN LONDON, AND HE
INSISTED ANY U.S. ACTION WOULD
BE VERY SMALL SCALE.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO WAR.
WE WILL NOT HAVE PEOPLE REST IN
THAT WAY.
THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT DOING.
UNBELIEVELY SMALL LIMITED TYPE
OF EFFORT.
>> KERRY WENT ON TO SAY THERE IS
A WAY THAT AS SAWED COULD
PREVENT AN ATTACK.
>> HE COULD TURN OVER EVERY
SINGLE BIT OF HIS CHEMICAL
WEAPONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY IN THE NEXT WEEK, TURN
IT OVER, ALL OF IT.
AND WITHOUT DELAY.
AND WITHOUT A FULL TOTAL
ACCOUNTING FOR THAT BUT HE ISN'T
ABOUT TO DO IT.
>> IN SHORT ORDER, THE GENERAL
JOINED IN CALLING FOR SYRIA TO
HAND OVER IT'S CHEMICAL ARSENAL.
RUSSIA, SYRIA'S ALLY ENDORSED
THE I'D AS WELL.
ER IS GUY ABRF.
>> WE CALL FOR THE FACILITIES TO
BE UNDER INTERNATIONAL CONTROL
AND DESTROY THEM AFTERWARDS.
>> AND EVEN SYRIA'S FOREIGN
MINISTER IN MOSCOW QUICKLY
AGREED.
>> I DECLARE THAT SYRIA WELCOMES
THE RUSSIAN PROPOSAL OUT OF
CONCERN FOR THE LIVES OF THE
SYRIAN PEOPLE, THE SECURITY OF
OUR COUNTRY, BECAUSE OF THE
WISDOM OF THE RUSSIAN LEADERSHIP
THAT SEEK TO AVERT AMERICAN
AGGRESSION AGAINST OUR PEOPLE.
>> IN WASHINGTON, INITIALLY U.S.
OFFICIALS, PAST AND PRESENT,
VOICED INTEREST AND SKEPTICISM.
FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE
HILLARY CLINTON SPOKE AT THE
WHITE HOUSE EVENT.
SAID --
>> IF THE REGIME IMMEDIATELY
SURRENDERS ITS STOCKPILE TO
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL, AS WAS
SUGGESTED BY SECRETARY KERRY AND
THE RUSSIANS THAT WOULD BE AN
IMPORTANT STEP.
BUT THIS CANNOT BE ANOTHER
EXCUSE FOR DELAY FOR
OBSTRUCTION, AND RUSSIA HAS TO
SUPPORT THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY'S EFFORTS SINCERELY OR
BE HELD TO ACCOUNT.
>> BUT HOURS LATER, A SURPRISING
CLARIFICATION, A SENIOR OFFICIAL
TRAVELING WITH KERRY SAID THE
SECRETARY'S REMARKS HAD BEEN
RHETORICAL AND NOT INTENDED AS A
SERIOUS PROPOSAL.
MEANWHILE, THE ADMINISTRATION
PRESSED ITS LOBBYING EFFORT TO
WIN CONGRESSIONAL
IT INCLUDED A CLOSED-DOOR
MEETING THIS EVENING FOR ALL
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, JUST BACK
FROM A MONTH-LINGERIES IS.
THE FIRST MAJOR TEST WILL COME
ON WEDNESDAY, WHEN THE SENATE
TAKES A PROCEDURAL VOTE ON A
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE FORCE
AGAINST SYRIA.
THE DIPLOMATIC BACK AND FORTH
OVER TRANSFERRING SYRIAN
WEAPONOS OUTSIDE CONTROL CREATED
CONFUSION FOR MUCH OF THE DAY.
IT ALSO BECAME A PRIME TOPIC IN
A SERIES OF INTERVIEWS AT THE
WHITE HOUSE AND ON THIS PROGRAM.
JUST MOMENTS AGO, GWEN SAT DOWN
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA TO TALK
ABOUT THAT AND HIS CONGRESSIONAL
PITCH.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, THANK YOU FOR
SPEAKING WITH US AGAIN.
10 DAYS AGO YOU SAID YOU WERE
HOPING -- JOHN KERRY TALKED
TODAY ABOUT A LIMITED
UNBELIEVABLY SMALL EFFORT AND
NOW WE'RE HEARING NEWS THAT
RUSSIA HAS A PLAN, A SOLUTION
PERHAPS, WHICH WOULD ALLOW SYRIA
TO TAKE ALL OF ITS WEAPONS AND
PUT IT UNDER INTERNATIONAL
CONTROL.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT YOU HAVE
HAD ANY CONVERSATIONS AT ALL
WITH PRESIDENT PUTIN ABOUT WHEN
YOU WERE IN ST. PETERSBURG LAST
WEEK?
>> I DID HAVE THOSE
CONVERSATIONS AND THIS IS A
CONTINUATION OF CONVERSATIONS I
HAVE HAD WITH PRESIDENT PUTIN
FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
AS I SAID THE LAST TIME WE
SPOKE, THIS CHEMICAL WEAPONS BAN
MATTERS TO US, TO THE UNITED
STATES.
IT IS A BAN ON THE WORST KINDS
OF WEAPONS THAT ARE
INDISCRIMINATE THAT DON'T
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN SOMEBODY IN
UNION AND AN INFANT CHILD
AND FOR THAT REASON THE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF THE
WORLD HAS SAID YOU CAN'T USE
THIS.
AND MY INTENTIONS THROUGHOUT
THIS PROCESS HAS BEEN TO ENSURE
THAT THE BLATANT USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS THAT WE SAW DOESN'T
HAPPEN AGAIN.
IF NARCOTIC THERE'S A WAY TO
ACCOMPLISH THAT DIPLOMATICALLY
THAT IS OVERWHELMINGLY MY
PREFERENCE, AND, YOU KNOW, I
HAVE INSTRUCTED JOHN KERRY TO
TALK DIRECTLY TO THE RUSSIANS
AND RUN THIS TO GROUND, AND IF
WE CAN EXHAUST THESE DIPLOMATIC
EFFORTS AND COME UP WITH A
FORMULA THAT GIVE US THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY A
VERIFIABLE, ENFORCEABLE
MECHANISM TO DEAL WITH THESE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA, THEN
I'M ALL FOR IT.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SEE
SPECIFICS AND I THINK IT IS
REASONABLE TO ASSUME THAT WE
WOULD NOT BE AT THIS POINT IF
THERE WERE NOT A CREDIBLE
MILITARY THREAT STANDING BEHIND
THE NORM AGAINST THE USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> CHARLIE ROSE HAD HAD A
CONVERSATION IN DAMASCUS TODAY
WITH BASHAR AL-ASSAD AND ONE OF
THE THINGS HE SAID IS THERE
MIGHT BE REPERCUSSIONS IF THERE
WERE A U.S. ATTACK.
DO YOU BELIEVE AT ALL A U.S.
ATTACK TO BACKFIRE?
>> I THINK YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO
TAKE ALL PRECAUTIONS AND
RECOGNIZE THAT ANY MILITARY
ACTION, EVEN A LIMITED ONE, IS A
SIGNIFICANT PIECE OF BUSINESS,
AND, YOU KNOW, WE HAD LOOKED
VERY CAREFULLY AT ALL OF THE
POSSIBILITIES.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
RECOGNIZE THAT AS SAWED DOES
NOT -- ASSAD DOES NOT HAVE
SIGNIFICANT CAPABILITIES
RELATIVE TO US.
HE HAS SIGNIFICANT CAPABILITIES
RELATIVE TO NONPROFESSIONALS,
SOLDIERS IN THE OPPOSITION.
>>   HE HAS OBVIOUSLY
SIGNIFICANT CAPABILITIES TO THE
WOMEN AND CHILDREN WHO WERE
GASSED, BUT NOT WITH RESPECT TO
US.
HIS ALLIES DO.
ARENA, HEZBOLLAH, THEY COULD
CARRY OUT ASYMMETRICAL ATTACKS
AGAINST OUR EMBASSIES FOR
EXAMPLE IN THE REGION.
BUT WE DON'T ACTUALLY THINK THAT
THEY WANT TO DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
KEEP IN MIND THAT IRAN WAS THE
COUNTRY LAST SUBJECTED TO
CHEMICAL WEAPONS BY SADDAM
HUSSEIN SO THERE'S A REAL
AVERSION TO CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
I DON'T THINK EITHER IRAN OR
HEZBOLLAH THOUGHT WHAT IRAN DID
WAS A GOOD IDEA.
FOR US TO TAKE A SIGNIFICANT AND
PROPORTION ALSTRIKE AN ASSAD'S
ABILITY TO USE THEM -- HAVING
SAID THAT WE TAKE ALL
PRECAUTIONS AND WE DON'T GO INTO
ANYTHING WITHOUT HAVING THOUGHT
THROUGH THE VARIOUS MEASURES
THAT ARE REQUIRED.
>> ASSAD SAID THE U.S. IS LYING
ABOUT HIS POSSESSION OR USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> I THINK MR. ASSAD HAS BEEN
MAKING CLAIMS THAT PROVED TO BE
UNTRUE FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
THERE'S NOBODY IN THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE THAT
THINKS THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS
WERE NOT USED ON AUGUST 21.
>> BY THE SYRIAN THE BOTTOM OF
THE?
>> WELL, PERIOD.
AND THERE IS VERY -- THERE ARE
VERY FEW FOLKS OUT THERE WHO
SERIOUSLY THINK THE OPPOSITION
HAD THE CAPABILITY TO KILL OVER
A THOUSAND PEOPLE USING ROCKETS
THAT CAME FROM REGIME-CONTROLLED
AREAS INTO AREAS THAT WERE
OPPOSITION-CONTROLLED.
SO, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE MADE A
VERY COMPELLING CASE ABOUT
ASSAD'S USE.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE CONSIDER
ASSAD TO BE A REAL CREDIBLE
PERSON ON THE INTERNATIONAL
STAGE.
BUT, AS I HAVE SAID BEFORE, IF
THERE ARE WAYS FOR US TO RESOLVE
THE SITUATION SO THAT NOBODY IS
USING CHEMICAL WEAPONS ON THE
GROUND IN SYRIA THAT'S THE GOAL
WE WANT TO ACCOMPLISH.
AND WHAT IS TRUE IS THAT THE
LONGER THIS CONFLICT GOES ON
WITH CHEMICAL WEAPONS ON THE
GROUND, AFTER HAVING SEEN THE
BARBARIC ATTACKS THAT TOOK
PLACE, YOU COULD END UP WITH A
SITUATION WHERE SOME OF THE MORE
DANGEROUS AND UNSAVORY MEMBERS
OF THE OPPOSITION, YOU KNOW, GOT
THEIR HANDS EVENTUALLY ON THESE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
NOW I'M PLEASED TO SAY THE
OPPOSITION THAT WE WORK WITH,
THE CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY HAVE
SUPPORTED, THEY HAVE BEEN VERY
CLEAR IN STATEMENTS, THEY DON'T
WANT CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THEY DON'T BELIEVE IN THEM.
THEY THINK IT'S A TERRIBLE CRIME
TO HAVE USED THEM.
AND SO I THINK THAT IF WE CAN
COME UP WITH A MECHANISM TO GET
THESE UNDER CONTROL, VERIFY AND
ENFORCE THAT THEY ARE NOT BEING
USED, THEN WE SHOULD DO
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO PURSUE
THAT.
BUT THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
IF ASSAD THINKS THAT HE CAN LIE
HIS WAY THROUGH THIS AND
EVENTUALLY THE WORLD FORGETS THE
IMAGES OF THOSE CHILDREN WHO
WERE GASSED.
>> HOW PER SWAYED MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS AND AMERICANS AND POLLS
TODAY SHOW THEY'RE NOT IN FAVOR
OF THE IDEA, AND THE REPUBLICAN
SENATOR FROM NEBRASKA THAT YOU
MET WITH LAST NIGHT SAID SHE
DOESN'T SEE THE END OF THIS, AND
DOESN'T KNOW WHAT THE PURPOSE OF
IT IS.
AND DEMOCRATS HAVE SAID, YOU
SHOULD WITHDRAW YOUR REQUEST FOR
AN AUTHORIZATION.
AND I KNOW THERE'S A FULL-COURT
PRESS UNDER WAY.
HOW DO YOU CHANGE THEIR MIND?
>> YOU KNOW I'M NOT SURE THAT
WE'RE EVER GOING TO GET A
MAJORITY OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
AFTER OVER A DECADE OF WAR,
AFTER WHAT HAPPENED IN IRAQ TO
SAY THAT ANY MILITARY ACTION,
PARTICULARLY IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
MAKES SENSE IN THE ABSENCE OF
SOME DIRECT THREAT OR ATTACK
AGAINST US.
AND THAT'S UNDERSTANDABLE.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU TALK TO MY OWN
FAMILY MEMBERS OR MICHELLE'S,
YOU KNOW, THEY'RE VERY WARY AND
SUSPICIOUS OF ANY ACTION.
SO TOMORROW I WILL SPEAK TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
I WILL EXPLAIN THIS NOT IRAQ,
THIS IS NOT AFGHANISTAN, THIS IS
NOT EVEN LIBYA.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT BOOTS ON
THE GROUND, WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT SUB ATTEND AIR STRIKES.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A SPECIFIC
SET OF STRIKES TO DEGRADE HIS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS CAPABILITIES IN
TERMS OF DELIVERY, AND, YOU
KNOW, I WILL CONTINUE TO BRIEF
CONGRESS ON THIS.
BUT I KNEW WHEN I SAID I WAS
GOING TO PRESENT THIS TO
CONGRESS THAT THIS WOULD BE
CHALLENGING.
I ALSO WANT TO MAKE THE CASE
THOUGH THAT IT IS IN OUR
LONG-TERM NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST TO MAKE SURE THIS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS BAN IS ENFORCED
>> DO YOU NEED --
>> I BELIEVE EVERY PRESIDENT HAS
THE AUTHORITY TO ACTING ON
BEHALF OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST OF THE COUNTRY.
AND THAT UNDER THE WAR POWERS
ACT WE HAVE TO CONSULT WITH
CONGRESS AND INFORM THEM AFTER
ACTIONS ARE TAKEN.
BUT I ALSO BELIEVE THAT WHEN IT
COMES TO AN ISSUE LIKE THIS --
AND THESE ARE GOING TO BE THE
KIND OF ISSUE WE HAVE GOING
FORWARD, NOT DIRECT ATTACKS
NECESSARILY AGAINST THE UNITED
STATES, NOT SOME STATE WANTING
TO START A WAR WITH US BECAUSE
NOBODY CAN HAVE A DIRECT WAR
WITH US, AT LEAST WITHOUT
INFLICTING ENORMOUS DAMAGE ON
THEMSELVES, BUT THESE KINDS OF
ISSUES, LIKE CHEMICAL WEAPONS
USE, TERRORISTS BEING, YOU KNOW,
OPERATING OUT OF CERTAIN AREAS,
IN THESE KINDS OF SITUATIONS,
FOR US TO START HAVING A CLEAR
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
WILLING TO DO IS THE RIGHT THING
TO DO.
AND SO I'M GLAD WE'RE HAVING
THIS DEBATE.
I DON'T THINK THAT I'M GOING TO
CONVINCE, YOU KNOW, THE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE TO TAKE ANY KIND
OF MILITARY ACTION.
BUT I BELIEVE I CAN MAKE A VERY
STRONG CASE TO CONGRESS AS WELL
AS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ABOUT WHY
WE CAN'T LEAVE OUR CHILDREN A
WORLD IN WHICH OTHER CHILDREN
ARE BEING SUBJECTED TO NERVE
GAS.
AND THAT IT IS IN OUR INTEREST
IF WE CAN TAKE A LIMITED STEP
THAT MAKES A MINIMAL DIFFERENCE
IT'S WORTH IT FOR US TO DO THAT
AND I FIRMLY BELIEVE THAT.
I HAVE SAID BEFORE, I GOT
ELECTED TO END WARS, NOT START
THEM.
I, OVER THE LAST FOUR AND A HALF
YEARS HAVE DONE EVERYTHING I CAN
TO LIMIT OUR MILITARY FOOTPRINT
AROUND THE WORLD AND TO RAMP UP
OUR DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS.
BUT THERE ARE TIMES WHERE, IF
THE CHOICE IS DO NOTHING OR
STAND UP TO A TERRIBLE WRONG
THAT COULD LEAD TO A MORE
DANGEROUS WORLD DOWN THE ROAD
THEN IT'S APPROPRIATE FOR US TO
TAKE PROPORTIONAL MEASURES AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
HERE.
>> MR. PRESIDENT THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
I REALLY ENJOYED IT.
>> NOW A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
STORY THAT DROVE THE NEWS CYCLE
EARLIER TODAY,
CHARLIE ROSE'S INTERVIEW WITH
SYRIAN PRESIDENT ASSAD.
IT AIRS IN ITS ENTIRETY ON MOST
PBS STATIONS TONIGHT.
HOWEVER, EXCERPTS LIKE THIS
APPEARED ON "CBS THIS MORNING."
>> EVERYTHING THEY SAY BAD ABOUT
A DICTATOR, THEY'RE NOW SAYING
ABOUT YOU.
>> WHEN YOU HAVE THE DOCTOR THAT
GOT THE LINK TO PROTECT THE
PATIENT FROM THE BANG GREEN, YOU
DON'T -- WHEN YOU HAVE
TERRORISM, YOU HAVE WAR.
WHEN YOU HAVE WAR, YOU ALWAYS
HAVE INNOCENT LIFE THAT COULD BE
THE VICTIM OF ANY WAR.
>> AND CHARLIE ROSE JOINS US
NOW.
CONGRATULATIONS, CHARLIE!
THIS WAS AN INTERVIEW EVERY NEWS
ORGANIZATION WANTED.
HOW DIFFICULT WAS IT TO ARRANGE?
>> VERY DIFFICULT, JUDY.
BUT, IN THE END, WHAT HAPP I BAO
THEM, LOOK, FOR MY PROGRAM, WE
WILL DO AN UNEDITED INTERVIEW
FOR 53 MINUTES, AN HOUR.
SAME THING I DID WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
AND THAT WAS ACCEPTABLE.
THEY HAD HAD SOME EXPERIENCE
WHERE THEY FELT LIKE AN
INTERVIEW HAD BEEN SORT OF
MANIPULATED.
SO WITHOUT GETTING INTO THAT, I
SAID I WILL GIVE YOU AN UNEDITED
INTERVIEW.
WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAYS WILL BE
ON THE PROGRAM.
AND THEY AGREED TO THAT.
AND THEN WE HAVE HAD A DEAL TO
MAKE -- TO COME TO DAMASCUS AND
DO THE INTERVIEW.
I ONLY GOT THE APPROVAL
LITERALLY THE DAY BEFORE I LEFT.
SO IT WAS NOT EASY.
LOTS OF CONVERSATIONS TOOK
PLACE.
AND WE WENT THERE.
I TOOK JEFF FAGER, PRESIDENT OF
THE "CBS NEWS" AND MY FRIEND AND
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER OF "60
MINUTES" WITH ME, AND CBS
PROVIDED A LOT OF HELP FOR ME IN
THE PROCESS OF GETTING TO
DAMASCUS.
WE GOT THERE.
THE FIRST AIRING OF THE
INTERVIEW IS TONIGHT ON PBS.
>> RIGHT.
>> AND IT WAS A REMARKABLE
EXPERIENCE, IN WHICH HE SAID, IF
I COULD MAKE THIS POINT,
EVERYBODY ASKS ME WHAT IS THE
HEADLINE?
ESD THERE WERE LOTS OF HEADLIN
FROM THE ISSUE AND ONE DID NOT
NECESSARILY GO FURTHER THAN THE
OTHER.
BUT THIS HAS COME UP.
THERE IS TODAY -- AND THIS IS
FROM "THE NEW YORK TIMES" -- A
SEEMINGLY OFFHAND SUGGESTION BY
JOHN KERRY THAT SYRIA COULD
AVERT A ATTACK BY RELINQUISHING
CHEMICAL WEAPONS RECEIVED ALMOST
IMMEDIATE WELCOME FROM SYRIA,
RUSSIA AND THE UNITED NATIONS IT
IS SAID.
WITHOUT KNOWING ANY OF THAT I
ASKED THE PRESIDENT OF SYRIA THE
FOLLOWING:  THE PRESIDENT IS
PREPARED TO STRIKE AND PERHAPS
WILL GET THE AUTHORIZATION OF
CONGRESS OR NOT.
>> THE QUESTION THEN IS WOULD
YOU GIVE UP CHEMICAL WEAPONS IF
IT WOULD PREVENT THE PRESIDENT
FROM AUTHORIZING A STRIKE.
IS THAT HAD A DEAL YOU WOULD
ACCEPT.
HE THEN SAID TO ME, AGAIN, YOU
ALWAYS IMPLY WE HAVE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
I SAY I HAVE TO BECAUSE THAT'S
THE ASSUMPTION OF THE PRESIDENT,
THAT IS HIS ASSUMPTION AND HE IS
THE ONE THAT WILL ORDER THE
STRIKE.
HE SAID:  IF IT'S HIS PROBLEM IF
HE HAS AN ASSUMPTION BUT FOR US
IN SEAR, WE ARE DO ANYTHING TO
PREVENT THE REGION FROM ANOTHER
CRAZY WAR.
IT'S NOT ONLY SYRIA BECAUSE IT
WILL START IN SYRIA.
I SAY:  YOU ARE DO ANYTHING TO
PREVENT THE REGION FROM HAVING A
CRAZY WAR?
HE SAYS:  YES.
SO THERE SEEMS TO BE, IN THIS
CONVERSATION A RECOGNITION BY
THE PRESIDENT, WITHOUT KNOWING
THE DEVELOPING STORY, THAT THEY
WOULD LISTEN TO THE IDEA OF
SOMEHOW GIVING UP CONTROL OF THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> SO HE LEFT THAT DOOR OPEN AT
THE SAME TIME HE ABSOLUTELY
DENIED USING CHEMICAL WEAPONS ON
THE REBELS, EVEN DENIED THE
EXISTENCE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN
THE HANDS OF THE REGIME.
>> YES.
>> CHARLIE, HOW DID YOU FIND HIS
DEMEANOR?
HOW DID HE DOM ACROSS TO YOU?
WAS HE DEFIANT OR --
>> NORTH OF THESE THINGS.
I THOUGHT HE WAS CALM.
THERE WAS NO STRIDENCY ABOUT
HIM.
WE HAD A CONVERSATION WHICH
BEGAN WITH, ARE YOU PREPARED TO
STRIKE?
WE WENT THROUGH EVERYTHING IN
TERMS OF VERY TOUGH MOMENTS
ABOUT THE FACT THAT MANY PEOPLE
BELIEVE HE IS THE WORST KIND OF
DICTATOR ASK THAT HE USED
ENORMOUS CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
AGAINST HIS OWN PEOPLE.
AND AT ALL TIMES, THERE WAS A
SENSE OF CALM.
THERE WAS A SENSE OF BEING
CONVERSATIONAL.
RESPONSIVE.
THERE WAS A SENSE OF BEING
SO IF HE WAS UNDER, AS YOU WOULD
RESPONSIVE.
IMAGINE, INTENSE STRESS, HE WAS
SO IF HE WAS UNDER, AS YOU WOULD
NEITHER DEFIANT NOR ANY OTHER
IMAGINE, INTENSE STRESS, HE WAS
SORT OF ONE-WORD DESCRIPTION.
NEITHER DEFIANT NOR ANY OTHER
>> SO WAS THERE SOMETHING ABOUT
SORT OF ONE-WORD DESCRIPTION.
HIM THAT SURPRISED YOU?
>> SO WAS THERE SOMETHING ABOUT
I'M ALSO CURIOUS ABOUT THE
HIM THAT SURPRISED YOU?
ATMOSPHERE IN THE PLACE WHERE
I'M ALSO CURIOUS ABOUT THE
YOU WERE.
ATMOSPHERE IN THE PLACE WHERE
I RECOGNIZE YOU WERE ONLY THERE
YOU WERE.
FOR A SHORT TIME.
I RECOGNIZE YOU WERE ONLY THERE
THE PEOPLE AROUND HIM, DID YOU
FOR A SHORT TIME.
PICK UP ANY OTHER SIGNALS?
THE PEOPLE AROUND HIM, DID YOU
>> WELL, THEY CONSTANTLY --
PICK UP ANY OTHER SIGNALS?
PEOPLE AROUND HIM WOULD SAY TO
>> WELL, THEY CONSTANTLY --
ME, I'M DOING THIS FOR MY
PEOPLE AROUND HIM WOULD SAY TO
COUNTRY, I LOVE MY COUNTRY,
ME, I'M DOING THIS FOR MY
THAT'S WHY I'M WORKING HERE,
COUNTRY, I LOVE MY COUNTRY,
THAT KIND OF THING.
THAT'S WHY I'M WORKING HERE,
THE INTERESTING THING ABOUT
THAT KIND OF THING.
SYRIA, THE PART THAT I SEE, AND
THE INTERESTING THING ABOUT
IRHAVE TO EMPHASIZE THAT I HAD A
SYRIA, THE PART THAT I SEE, AND
VERY LIMITED VIEW A BECAUSE OF
IRHAVE TO EMPHASIZE THAT I HAD A
TIME AND, B, BECAUSE MY
VERY LIMITED VIEW A BECAUSE OF
TRANSPORTATION WAS BETWEEN WHERE
TIME AND, B, BECAUSE MY
I WAS STAYING AND WHERE THE
TRANSPORTATION WAS BETWEEN WHERE
INTERVIEW WAS GOING TO TIE
I WAS STAYING AND WHERE THE
PLACE.
INTERVIEW WAS GOING TO TIE
I DIDN'T SEE THE EVIDENCE THAT
PLACE.
CLEARLY MUST BE THERE OF A
I DIDN'T SEE THE EVIDENCE THAT
COUNTRY THAT IS IN THE MIDST OF
CLEARLY MUST BE THERE OF A
A WAR AND HEARS BOMBS AND
COUNTRY THAT IS IN THE MIDST OF
EXPLOSIONS EVERY NIGHT AND MAY
A WAR AND HEARS BOMBS AND
BE EXPECTING TO REIGN DOWN UPON
EXPLOSIONS EVERY NIGHT AND MAY
IT A KIND OF ATTACK IT HAS NEVER
BE EXPECTING TO REIGN DOWN UPON
EXPERIENCED BEFORE.
IT A KIND OF ATTACK IT HAS NEVER
YOU DIDN'T GET THAT FROM THE
EXPERIENCED BEFORE.
STREET.
YOU DIDN'T GET THAT FROM THE
>> CHARLIE ROSE, A REMARKABLE
STREET.
INTERVIEW.
>> CHARLIE ROSE, A REMARKABLE
CONGRATULATIONS AGAIN.
INTERVIEW.
AND THANK YOU.
CONGRATULATIONS AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
AND THANK YOU.
>> AND SHORTLY BEFORE GWEN'S
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT, I
>> AND SHORTLY BEFORE GWEN'S
SPOKE WITH RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR
INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT, I
TO THE UNITED NATIONS,
SPOKE WITH RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR
B.CHERKEN.
TO THE UNITED NATIONS,
WELL MARKS, YOUR GOVERNMENT IS
B.CHERKEN.
TALKING PUBLICLY ABOUT THIS
WELL MARKS, YOUR GOVERNMENT IS
PROPOSAL UNDER WHICH SEAR
TALKING PUBLICLY ABOUT THIS
AFTERPUT ITS CHEMICAL WEAPONS
PROPOSAL UNDER WHICH SEAR
UNDER INTERNATIONAL CONTROL.
AFTERPUT ITS CHEMICAL WEAPONS
TELL US, HOW WOULD THAT WORK AND
UNDER INTERNATIONAL CONTROL.
HOW QUICKLY?
TELL US, HOW WOULD THAT WORK AND
>> WELL, WE'RE RESPONDENT TO
HOW QUICKLY?
WHAT SECRETARY KERRY SAID TODAY
>> WELL, WE'RE RESPONDENT TO
IN LAND DONE AND SAID A MILITARY
WHAT SECRETARY KERRY SAID TODAY
STRIKE BY THE UNITED STATES AND
IN LAND DONE AND SAID A MILITARY
SYRIA COULD BE STOPPED IF THE
STRIKE BY THE UNITED STATES AND
STRONG PILE COULD BE PUT UNDER
SYRIA COULD BE STOPPED IF THE
CONTROL.
STRONG PILE COULD BE PUT UNDER
AND TODAY IN MOSCOW, THE NEWS OF
CONTROL.
MR. KERRY'S STATEMENT CAME AFTER
AND TODAY IN MOSCOW, THE NEWS OF
THE TALKS AND WE'RE VERY
MR. KERRY'S STATEMENT CAME AFTER
RESPONDENT BY OUR FOREIGN
THE TALKS AND WE'RE VERY
MINISTER WHO CAME UP WITH THIS
RESPONDENT BY OUR FOREIGN
INITIATIVE THAT WE WILL WORK
MINISTER WHO CAME UP WITH THIS
WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA IN
INITIATIVE THAT WE WILL WORK
ORDER TO ACHIEVE THAT
WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA IN
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL
ORDER TO ACHIEVE THAT
OVER, TO MOVE TOWARDS THE
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL
DESTRUCTION OF THE SYRIAN
OVER, TO MOVE TOWARDS THE
CHEMICAL STOCKPILE AND MAKING
DESTRUCTION OF THE SYRIAN
SYRIA -- AND THE SYRIANS
CHEMICAL STOCKPILE AND MAKING
RESPONDED POSITIVELY, SO I THINK
SYRIA -- AND THE SYRIANS
IF WE WORK TOGETHER WITH THE
RESPONDED POSITIVELY, SO I THINK
UNITED STATES AND WITH THE
IF WE WORK TOGETHER WITH THE
UNITED NATIONS AND TODAY
UNITED STATES AND WITH THE
SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE UNITED
UNITED NATIONS AND TODAY
NATIONS MADE THEIR REMARKS VERY
SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE UNITED
SIMILAR TO THE REMARKS OF THOSE,
NATIONS MADE THEIR REMARKS VERY
I THINK WE COULD ACCOMPLISH
SIMILAR TO THE REMARKS OF THOSE,
THAT, IN A WAY, WHICH WOULD
I THINK WE COULD ACCOMPLISH
PREVENT THE MAJOR ESCALATION OF
THAT, IN A WAY, WHICH WOULD
THE SYRIAN CRISES.
PREVENT THE MAJOR ESCALATION OF
>> WE'RE SEEING A U.S. OFFICIAL
THE SYRIAN CRISES.
QUOTED AS SAYING WHAT SECRETARY
>> WE'RE SEEING A U.S. OFFICIAL
KERRY SAID WAS, QUOTE,
QUOTED AS SAYING WHAT SECRETARY
RHETORICAL.
KERRY SAID WAS, QUOTE,
YOU'RE TAKING IT AS A SERIOUS
RHETORICAL.
PROPOSAL THOUGH?
YOU'RE TAKING IT AS A SERIOUS
>> WELL, IT'S A STATEMENT WHICH
PROPOSAL THOUGH?
WAS MADE BY THE SECRETARY OF
>> WELL, IT'S A STATEMENT WHICH
STATE OF THE UNITED STATES.
WAS MADE BY THE SECRETARY OF
AND YOU KNOW, THIS SUBJECT WAS
STATE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DISCUSSED NOT SPECIFICALLY TO
AND YOU KNOW, THIS SUBJECT WAS
PREVENT AN AMERICAN MILITARY
DISCUSSED NOT SPECIFICALLY TO
STRIKE BUT IT WAS DISCUSSED IN
PREVENT AN AMERICAN MILITARY
ONE OF THE PREVIOUS
STRIKE BUT IT WAS DISCUSSED IN
CONVERSATIONS OR RECENT
ONE OF THE PREVIOUS
CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN MINISTER
CONVERSATIONS OR RECENT
AND SECRETARY KERRY SO I THINK
CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN MINISTER
THERE IS REASON TO BELIEVE THIS
AND SECRETARY KERRY SO I THINK
IS NOT SOMETHING THAT WAS DONE
THERE IS REASON TO BELIEVE THIS
EXTEMPORANEOUSLY BUT ANYWAY NO
IS NOT SOMETHING THAT WAS DONE
MATTER HOW THOSE STATEMENTS CAME
EXTEMPORANEOUSLY BUT ANYWAY NO
ABOUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
MATTER HOW THOSE STATEMENTS CAME
0 -- IT'S IMPORTANT TO GRAB THE
ABOUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
OPPORTUNITY WHICH MAY BE THERE
0 -- IT'S IMPORTANT TO GRAB THE
TO PREVENT THE ESCALATION OF THE
OPPORTUNITY WHICH MAY BE THERE
SYRIAN CRISES WHICH IS
TO PREVENT THE ESCALATION OF THE
INEVITABLE SHOULD THE MILITARY
SYRIAN CRISES WHICH IS
STRIKES TAKE PLACE.
INEVITABLE SHOULD THE MILITARY
AND INCIDENTALLY THAT WOULD ALSO
STRIKES TAKE PLACE.
TAKE CARE OF A LONG-STANDING
AND INCIDENTALLY THAT WOULD ALSO
CONCERN OF ISRAEL FOR THEIR
TAKE CARE OF A LONG-STANDING
SECURITY, IN CASE CHEMICAL
CONCERN OF ISRAEL FOR THEIR
WEAPONS FROM SYRIA SOMEHOW SPILL
SECURITY, IN CASE CHEMICAL
OVER TO THE ISRAELI TERRITORY.
WEAPONS FROM SYRIA SOMEHOW SPILL
SO I THINK THIS IS A VERY
OVER TO THE ISRAELI TERRITORY.
IMPORTANT INITIATIVE, WHICH HAS
SO I THINK THIS IS A VERY
BEEN PICKED UP BY THE SYRIAN
IMPORTANT INITIATIVE, WHICH HAS
GOVERNMENT, AND OUR LEVERAGE
BEEN PICKED UP BY THE SYRIAN
SOMETIMES DOES WORK -- NOT
GOVERNMENT, AND OUR LEVERAGE
ALWAYS BUT SOMETIMES IT DOES
SOMETIMES DOES WORK -- NOT
WORK AND LET'S HOPE THIS IS ONE
ALWAYS BUT SOMETIMES IT DOES
OF THOSE SITUATIONS WHERE AGAIN
WORK AND LET'S HOPE THIS IS ONE
WE COULD WORK TOGETHER WITH THE
OF THOSE SITUATIONS WHERE AGAIN
UNITED STATES ON THIS, ALONG
WE COULD WORK TOGETHER WITH THE
WITH THE PREPARATION OF THE
UNITED STATES ON THIS, ALONG
GENEVA II CONFERENCE INITIATED
WITH THE PREPARATION OF THE
BY SECRETARY KERRY AND THE
GENEVA II CONFERENCE INITIATED
MINISTER, SO I THINK WE NEED TO
BY SECRETARY KERRY AND THE
HAVE YES FOR AN ANSWER FROM THE
MINISTER, SO I THINK WE NEED TO
UNITED STATES AND WE HAVE
HAVE YES FOR AN ANSWER FROM THE
STATEMENTSs, AS I MENTIONED
UNITED STATES AND WE HAVE
FROM SECRETARY BUND OF THE
STATEMENTSs, AS I MENTIONED
UNITED NATIONS WHO SAID IT'S A
FROM SECRETARY BUND OF THE
GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO CONTINUE
UNITED NATIONS WHO SAID IT'S A
THIS TRIANGULAR COOPERATION IN
GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO CONTINUE
TERMS OF GENEVA 2.
THIS TRIANGULAR COOPERATION IN
>> WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THAT THE
TERMS OF GENEVA 2.
SYRIANS ARE PREPARED TO TURN
>> WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THAT THE
OVER CONTROL OF THOSE CHEMICAL
SYRIANS ARE PREPARED TO TURN
WEAPONS IN THAT INTERVIEW WITH
OVER CONTROL OF THOSE CHEMICAL
CHARLIE ROSE PRESIDENT ASSAD DID
WEAPONS IN THAT INTERVIEW WITH
NOT EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE THEY HAD
CHARLIE ROSE PRESIDENT ASSAD DID
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, NUMBER ONE.
NOT EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE THEY HAD
AND NUMBER TWO, THE REPORT IS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, NUMBER ONE.
THEY SPENT YEARS AMASSING THESE
AND NUMBER TWO, THE REPORT IS
WEAPONS.
THEY SPENT YEARS AMASSING THESE
WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THEY WOULD
WEAPONS.
GIVE UP THAT CONTROL?
WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THEY WOULD
>> WELL, THEY SAY THEY ARE
GIVE UP THAT CONTROL?
ACCEPTING OUR INITIATIVE, AND I
>> WELL, THEY SAY THEY ARE
HAVEN'T SEEN YET PRESIDENT
ACCEPTING OUR INITIATIVE, AND I
ASSAD'S INTERVIEW.
HAVEN'T SEEN YET PRESIDENT
I UNDERSTAND THAT HE HAS BEEN
ASSAD'S INTERVIEW.
REPEATING THE LONG-STANDING LINE
I UNDERSTAND THAT HE HAS BEEN
OF THE SYRIANS WHO REFUSE TO
REPEATING THE LONG-STANDING LINE
ACKNOWLEDGE THEY ARE IN
OF THE SYRIANS WHO REFUSE TO
POSSESSION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
ACKNOWLEDGE THEY ARE IN
MIRROR IMAGING THE ISRAELIS TO
POSSESSION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THEIR NUCLEAR STOCKPILE SO
MIRROR IMAGING THE ISRAELIS TO
THERE'S NOTHING SURPRISING ABOUT
THEIR NUCLEAR STOCKPILE SO
THAT REFUSAL TWO DAYS AGO BUT
THERE'S NOTHING SURPRISING ABOUT
NOW WE HAVE -- AFTER THE
THAT REFUSAL TWO DAYS AGO BUT
STATEMENTS BY SECRETARY KRERRY
NOW WE HAVE -- AFTER THE
AND THE FOREIGN MINISTER.
STATEMENTS BY SECRETARY KRERRY
>> WHY SHOULD AMERICANS NOT SEE
AND THE FOREIGN MINISTER.
THIS, MR. AMBASSADOR, AS SIMPLY
>> WHY SHOULD AMERICANS NOT SEE
A STALLING TACTIC?
THIS, MR. AMBASSADOR, AS SIMPLY
WHY SHOULD THE AMERICAN
A STALLING TACTIC?
GOVERNMENT, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT,
WHY SHOULD THE AMERICAN
SEE THIS AS A SERIOUS MOVE THAT
GOVERNMENT, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT,
COULD CHANGE THE SITUATION
SEE THIS AS A SERIOUS MOVE THAT
WITHIN A MATTER OF DAYS?
COULD CHANGE THE SITUATION
>> BECAUSE IT IS A SERIOUS MOVE.
WITHIN A MATTER OF DAYS?
AND IT IS A RESPONSE TO WHAT THE
>> BECAUSE IT IS A SERIOUS MOVE.
SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE UNITED
AND IT IS A RESPONSE TO WHAT THE
STATES SAID AND, OF COURSE, IT
SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE UNITED
CAN BE DISREGARDED OR IT CAN BE
STATES SAID AND, OF COURSE, IT
SOMEHOW INTERPRETED IN A
CAN BE DISREGARDED OR IT CAN BE
NEGATIVE WAY AND THE UNITED
SOMEHOW INTERPRETED IN A
STATES CAN GO AHEAD AND DO THIS
NEGATIVE WAY AND THE UNITED
MILITARY STRIKE, WHICH WOULD
STATES CAN GO AHEAD AND DO THIS
ELIMINATE ANY CHANCE OF
MILITARY STRIKE, WHICH WOULD
POLITICAL SETTLEMENT WHICH COULD
ELIMINATE ANY CHANCE OF
HAVE CATASTROPHIC CONSEQUENCES
POLITICAL SETTLEMENT WHICH COULD
FOR SYRIA AND WHICH WOULD MAKE
HAVE CATASTROPHIC CONSEQUENCES
THAT WAR ANOTHER AMERICAN WAR
FOR SYRIA AND WHICH WOULD MAKE
LIKE VIETNAM AND IRAQ USED TO BE
THAT WAR ANOTHER AMERICAN WAR
AND ALL OF THIS CONVERSATION
LIKE VIETNAM AND IRAQ USED TO BE
ABOUT 60 TO 90 DAYS CAMPAIGN AND
AND ALL OF THIS CONVERSATION
THEN THE UNITED STATES RETURNING
ABOUT 60 TO 90 DAYS CAMPAIGN AND
TO ITS SHORES AND FORGETTING ALL
THEN THE UNITED STATES RETURNING
ABOUT SYRIA, AND IN SUCH
TO ITS SHORES AND FORGETTING ALL
SITUATIONS THE RULE APPLIES --
ABOUT SYRIA, AND IN SUCH
THE CHINA SHOP RULE APPLIES:
SITUATIONS THE RULE APPLIES --
YOU BROKE IT, YOU BOUGHT IT.
THE CHINA SHOP RULE APPLIES:
SO SYRIA, AFTER A STRIKE, WOULD
YOU BROKE IT, YOU BOUGHT IT.
BECOME AN AMERICAN CONFLICT AND
SO SYRIA, AFTER A STRIKE, WOULD
THERE'S NO WAY FOR THE UNITED
BECOME AN AMERICAN CONFLICT AND
STATES TO BALK AWAY FROM IT,
THERE'S NO WAY FOR THE UNITED
ESPECIALLY IN A SITUATION WHERE
STATES TO BALK AWAY FROM IT,
THE UNITED STATES IS PRETTY MUCH
ESPECIALLY IN A SITUATION WHERE
ISOLATED INTERNATIONALLY.
THE UNITED STATES IS PRETTY MUCH
>> IT SOUND LIKE YOU'RE SAYING
ISOLATED INTERNATIONALLY.
AN AMERICAN STRIKE COULD LEAD TO
>> IT SOUND LIKE YOU'RE SAYING
JUST INDESCRIBABLE CONSEQUENCES?
AN AMERICAN STRIKE COULD LEAD TO
>> ABSOLUTELY.
JUST INDESCRIBABLE CONSEQUENCES?
IN THIS SITUATION, ONE DOESN'T
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HAVE TO BE A MILITARY EXPERT TO
IN THIS SITUATION, ONE DOESN'T
RECOGNIZE THAT.
HAVE TO BE A MILITARY EXPERT TO
YOU CANNOT CALCULATE IT'S NOT A
RECOGNIZE THAT.
COMPUTER GAME.
YOU CANNOT CALCULATE IT'S NOT A
YOU CANNOT CALCULATE EVERYTHING
COMPUTER GAME.
IN ADVANCE.
YOU CANNOT CALCULATE EVERYTHING
WHAT AMERICAN OFFICIALS ARE
IN ADVANCE.
SAYING, THEIR ARE GOING TO
WHAT AMERICAN OFFICIALS ARE
CRIPPLE THE POSSIBILITY FOR THE
SAYING, THEIR ARE GOING TO
ASSAD GOVERNMENT TO USE THE
CRIPPLE THE POSSIBILITY FOR THE
CHEMICAL STOCKPILE.
ASSAD GOVERNMENT TO USE THE
WE'RE NOT QUITE CLEAR WHAT THAT
CHEMICAL STOCKPILE.
MEANS BUT IT MAY WELL BE IT WILL
WE'RE NOT QUITE CLEAR WHAT THAT
IMPALE THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT IN
MEANS BUT IT MAY WELL BE IT WILL
CONTROL OF THE STOCKPILE
IMPALE THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT IN
INCREASING THE CHANCE OF GETTING
CONTROL OF THE STOCKPILE
TO THE HANDS OF THE SYRIANS AND
INCREASING THE CHANCE OF GETTING
ALL OVER THE PLACE, AND TO SAY
TO THE HANDS OF THE SYRIANS AND
NOTHING OF THE LIKELY INCREASE
ALL OVER THE PLACE, AND TO SAY
IN FIGHTING, BECAUSE THE
NOTHING OF THE LIKELY INCREASE
POSITION GROUPS AND THE AL QAEDA
IN FIGHTING, BECAUSE THE
AFFILIATED GROUPS WILL TAKE THE
POSITION GROUPS AND THE AL QAEDA
OPPORTUNITY OF AN AMERICAN
AFFILIATED GROUPS WILL TAKE THE
STRIKE TO INTENSIFY THEIR
OPPORTUNITY OF AN AMERICAN
ONSLAUGHTS AND INCIDENTS THEY
STRIKE TO INTENSIFY THEIR
HAVE BEEN COMMITTING IN FRONT OF
ONSLAUGHTS AND INCIDENTS THEY
THE INTERNET CAMERAS FOR A
HAVE BEEN COMMITTING IN FRONT OF
NUMBER OF YEARS.
THE INTERNET CAMERAS FOR A
>> AND SECRETARY KERRY HAS SAID
NUMBER OF YEARS.
ANY STRIKE WOULD BE, IN HIS
>> AND SECRETARY KERRY HAS SAID
WORDS, QUOTE, UNBELIEVABLY
ANY STRIKE WOULD BE, IN HIS
SMALL.
WORDS, QUOTE, UNBELIEVABLY
>> WELL, I DON'T BELIEVE IT'S
SMALL.
POSSIBLE.
>> WELL, I DON'T BELIEVE IT'S
I MEAN, THE FACT OF IT IS GOING
POSSIBLE.
TO BE UNBELIEVABLY BIG.
I MEAN, THE FACT OF IT IS GOING
AND OF CRSE, NO MATTER HOW
TO BE UNBELIEVABLY BIG.
SMALL OR BIG IT IS, IT'S GOING
AND OF CRSE, NO MATTER HOW
TO BE A VIOLATION OF
SMALL OR BIG IT IS, IT'S GOING
INTERNATIONAL LAW, BECAUSE
TO BE A VIOLATION OF
SYRIA, OF COURSE, HAS NOT
INTERNATIONAL LAW, BECAUSE
UNDERTAKEN AN AGGRESSION AGAINST
SYRIA, OF COURSE, HAS NOT
THE UNITED STATES.
UNDERTAKEN AN AGGRESSION AGAINST
THERE'S NO DECISION OF THE
THE UNITED STATES.
SECURITY COUNCIL TO USE MILITARY
THERE'S NO DECISION OF THE
FORCE.
SECURITY COUNCIL TO USE MILITARY
I MEAN THESE AMERICAN OFFICIALS
FORCE.
RECOGNIZE THAT THE UNITED STATES
I MEAN THESE AMERICAN OFFICIALS
CANNOT BE THE WORS POLICEMEN.
RECOGNIZE THAT THE UNITED STATES
THEY NEED TO COME TO THE
CANNOT BE THE WORS POLICEMEN.
LONGER THE WORLD'S JUDGE AND
THEY NEED TO COME TO THE
JURY.
LONGER THE WORLD'S JUDGE AND
THEY HAVE COME TO THEIR
JURY.
CONCLUSION, A LARGE PART OF THE
THEY HAVE COME TO THEIR
WORLD DID YOU NOT SHARE THEIR
CONCLUSION, A LARGE PART OF THE
CONCLUSION.
WORLD DID YOU NOT SHARE THEIR
I MIGHT SUSPECT THAT THEY ARE
CONCLUSION.
NOT GOING TO ASSURE THE AMERICAN
I MIGHT SUSPECT THAT THEY ARE
OFFICIALS THEIR CONCLUSIONS ARE
NOT GOING TO ASSURE THE AMERICAN
WRONG.
OFFICIALS THEIR CONCLUSIONS ARE
BUT EVEN THOUGH WE WOULD SUSPECT
WRONG.
THAT WE WOULD SHED MORE LIGHT ON
BUT EVEN THOUGH WE WOULD SUSPECT
THE SITUATION AFTER WE LEARN THE
THAT WE WOULD SHED MORE LIGHT ON
RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION
THE SITUATION AFTER WE LEARN THE
WHICH WAS CARRIED OUT BY.N. U
RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION
INSPECTORS IN SYRIA OFS USE
WHICH WAS CARRIED OUT BY.N. U
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS BUT WE GOT
INSPECTORS IN SYRIA OFS USE
INTO AN INITIATIVE OF THE
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS BUT WE GOT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION TO ALLOW THE
INTO AN INITIATIVE OF THE
UNITED STATES TO AVOID ALL OF
RUSSIAN FEDERATION TO ALLOW THE
THE DRAMATIC CONSEQUENCES WHICH
UNITED STATES TO AVOID ALL OF
MIGHT BE THERE AND MOST LIKELY
THE DRAMATIC CONSEQUENCES WHICH
ARE GOING TO BE THERE IN THE
MIGHT BE THERE AND MOST LIKELY
CASE OF THE USE OF AMERICAN
ARE GOING TO BE THERE IN THE
FORCE IN SYRIA, AND HOW THE
CASE OF THE USE OF AMERICAN
UNITED STATES WOULD AVOID
FORCE IN SYRIA, AND HOW THE
ANOTHER NASTY CONFLICT IN THE
UNITED STATES WOULD AVOID
MIDDLE EAST FOR WHICH THE UNITED
ANOTHER NASTY CONFLICT IN THE
STATES WILL BECOME RESPONSIBLE
MIDDLE EAST FOR WHICH THE UNITED
SHOULD THERE BE AN EMINENT
STATES WILL BECOME RESPONSIBLE
STRIKE BY THE UNITED STATES.
SHOULD THERE BE AN EMINENT
>> WE HEAR YOU, MR. AMBASSADOR.
STRIKE BY THE UNITED STATES.
AMBASSADOR, RUSSIA ACE
>> WE HEAR YOU, MR. AMBASSADOR.
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED
AMBASSADOR, RUSSIA ACE
NATIONS.
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NATIONS.
>> AS THE PRESIDENT AND I WERE
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
DISCUSSING, A NEW POLL IS OUT
>> AS THE PRESIDENT AND I WERE
TODAY SHOWING THE AMERICAN
DISCUSSING, A NEW POLL IS OUT
PUBLIC OVERWHELMINGLY OPPOSES
TODAY SHOWING THE AMERICAN
MILITARY ACTION.
PUBLIC OVERWHELMINGLY OPPOSES
FOR MORE ON THE NUMBERS I'M
MILITARY ACTION.
JOINED BY JENNIFER JENNIFER,
FOR MORE ON THE NUMBERS I'M
DIRECTOR OF POLLING FOR THE
JOINED BY JENNIFER JENNIFER,
PRESS AND MICHAEL POLEMENIJ OF
DIRECTOR OF POLLING FOR THE
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER.
PRESS AND MICHAEL POLEMENIJ OF
HOW TO EXPLAIN AMERICA'S DEEP
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER.
ANTIPATHY FOR THE POTENTIAL FOR
HOW TO EXPLAIN AMERICA'S DEEP
INTERVENTION.
ANTIPATHY FOR THE POTENTIAL FOR
MICHAEL?
INTERVENTION.
>> AND ITS GROWING CONCERN.
MICHAEL?
THE OPPOSITION LAST WEEK WAS
>> AND ITS GROWING CONCERN.
LOWER THAN THIRST WEAK.
THE OPPOSITION LAST WEEK WAS
DESPITE A WEEK OF MAKING THE
LOWER THAN THIRST WEAK.
CASE THE PUBLIC IS MOVING IN THE
DESPITE A WEEK OF MAKING THE
OTHER DIRECTION.
CASE THE PUBLIC IS MOVING IN THE
THE BIGGEST FACTOR BEHIND IT IS
OTHER DIRECTION.
NOT THAT THE ARGUMENTS FOR IT
THE BIGGEST FACTOR BEHIND IT IS
AREN'T PERSUASIVE BUT THE
NOT THAT THE ARGUMENTS FOR IT
ARGUMENTS AGAINST ARE REALLY
AREN'T PERSUASIVE BUT THE
WEIGHING HEAVILY ON PEOPLE AND
ARGUMENTS AGAINST ARE REALLY
THAT IS THE CONCERN THAT A U.S.
WEIGHING HEAVILY ON PEOPLE AND
MILITARY EFFORT IN SYRIA COULD
THAT IS THE CONCERN THAT A U.S.
LEAD TO UNFORESEEN RESULTS THAT
MILITARY EFFORT IN SYRIA COULD
ARE BAD FOR UNITED STATES,
LEAD TO UNFORESEEN RESULTS THAT
WHETHER IT'S OUR ALLIES IN THE
ARE BAD FOR UNITED STATES,
REGION, WHETHER IT'S MILITARILY,
WHETHER IT'S OUR ALLIES IN THE
THERE'S A CONCERN THIS COULD DO
REGION, WHETHER IT'S MILITARILY,
MORE HARM THAN GOOD, AND, IN
THERE'S A CONCERN THIS COULD DO
THAT CASE, I DON'T THINK IT HAS
MORE HARM THAN GOOD, AND, IN
BEEN MADE TO PEOPLE YET.
THAT CASE, I DON'T THINK IT HAS
>> JENNIFER, TELL ME WHAT YOUR
BEEN MADE TO PEOPLE YET.
NUMBERS SHOW IN THE POLL THAT IS
>> JENNIFER, TELL ME WHAT YOUR
OUT THIS AFTERNOON.
NUMBERS SHOW IN THE POLL THAT IS
>> WE'RE FINDING THAT THE
OUT THIS AFTERNOON.
ARGUMENTS THAT A HAVE BEEN MADE
>> WE'RE FINDING THAT THE
IN FAVOR OF TAKING ACTION IN
ARGUMENTS THAT A HAVE BEEN MADE
SYRIA ARE NOT CONVINCING THE
IN FAVOR OF TAKING ACTION IN
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
SYRIA ARE NOT CONVINCING THE
ONLY ONE IN FIVE SAY THEY
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
BELIEVE IT'S LIKELY THAT AN
ONLY ONE IN FIVE SAY THEY
ATTACK WOULD DETER OTHER LEADERS
BELIEVE IT'S LIKELY THAT AN
FROM USING CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
ATTACK WOULD DETER OTHER LEADERS
MANY SAY THEY THINK ANY
FROM USING CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
INVOLVEMENT WOULD LEAD TO A
MANY SAY THEY THINK ANY
LONG-TERM COMMITMENT OF MILITARY
INVOLVEMENT WOULD LEAD TO A
FORCES AND THOSE OPINIONS ARE
LONG-TERM COMMITMENT OF MILITARY
GENERALLY CONSISTENT ACROSS
FORCES AND THOSE OPINIONS ARE
PARTY LINES WHICH IS SOMEWHAT
GENERALLY CONSISTENT ACROSS
SURPRISING AN ON ISSUE SUCH AS
PARTY LINES WHICH IS SOMEWHAT
THIS.
SURPRISING AN ON ISSUE SUCH AS
>> DO YOUR NUMBERS ADD UP TO
THIS.
THAT, MICHAEL?
>> DO YOUR NUMBERS ADD UP TO
>> SIX OUT OF 10 PEOPLE IN OUR
THAT, MICHAEL?
SURVEY SAID THEY BELIEVE THE
>> SIX OUT OF 10 PEOPLE IN OUR
U.S. NEEDS TO TAKE SOME KIND OF
SURVEY SAID THEY BELIEVE THE
ACTION IN RESPONSE TO THE USE OF
U.S. NEEDS TO TAKE SOME KIND OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS BUT AMONG THOSE
ACTION IN RESPONSE TO THE USE OF
FEWER THAN HALF FAVOR AIR
CHEMICAL WEAPONS BUT AMONG THOSE
STRIKES.
FEWER THAN HALF FAVOR AIR
SOME.
STRIKES.
IS THERE A MORAL DISTINCTION FOR
SOME.
WHAT SHOULD MOVE U.S. ACTION?
IS THERE A MORAL DISTINCTION FOR
>> WE HAVEN'T SEEN A MORAL
WHAT SHOULD MOVE U.S. ACTION?
DISTINCTION IN OUR POLE.
>> WE HAVEN'T SEEN A MORAL
IT'S MORE RESISTANCE TO GETTING
DISTINCTION IN OUR POLE.
INVOLVED IN ANOTHER MILITARY
IT'S MORE RESISTANCE TO GETTING
CONFLICT AND HAVING THAT TURN
INVOLVED IN ANOTHER MILITARY
INTO A LONGER TERM COMMITMENT.
CONFLICT AND HAVING THAT TURN
>> HOW ABOUT THE IDEA OF
INTO A LONGER TERM COMMITMENT.
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ALONG THIS
>> HOW ABOUT THE IDEA OF
TIPPING POINT.
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ALONG THIS
ARE PEOPLE PERSUADED WITH THIS
TIPPING POINT.
ARGUMENT?
ARE PEOPLE PERSUADED WITH THIS
>> THEY SEEM NOT TO BE.
ARGUMENT?
I BELIEVE THAT A MILITARY STRIKE
>> THEY SEEM NOT TO BE.
WOULD DISSUADE OTHER LEADERS
I BELIEVE THAT A MILITARY STRIKE
FROM USING THEM IN THE FUTURE,
WOULD DISSUADE OTHER LEADERS
AND SO THAT ARGUMENT AGAINST IT,
FROM USING THEM IN THE FUTURE,
FOR WHY THAT RED LINE IS NOT
AND SO THAT ARGUMENT AGAINST IT,
CLICKING THROUGH TO THE AMERICAN
FOR WHY THAT RED LINE IS NOT
PUBLIC.
CLICKING THROUGH TO THE AMERICAN
>> MICHAEL.
PUBLIC.
>> ONE ARGUMENT THAT HAS NOT
>> MICHAEL.
SETTLED IN IS THE CASE THAT
>> ONE ARGUMENT THAT HAS NOT
DOING NOTHING WOULD CHALLENGE
SETTLED IN IS THE CASE THAT
AMERICA'S CREDIBILITY IN FOREIGN
DOING NOTHING WOULD CHALLENGE
POLICY.
AMERICA'S CREDIBILITY IN FOREIGN
THAT'S NOT AN ARGUMENT THAT IS
POLICY.
PERSUADING A LOT OF AMERICANS.
THAT'S NOT AN ARGUMENT THAT IS
>> WHAT DOES THIS DO FOR THE
PERSUADING A LOT OF AMERICANS.
PRESIDENT'S STANDING.
>> WHAT DOES THIS DO FOR THE
YOU HEARD WHAT THE PRESIDENT
PRESIDENT'S STANDING.
SAID ABOUT THIS.
YOU HEARD WHAT THE PRESIDENT
HE DOESN'T EXPECT TO WIN OVER
SAID ABOUT THIS.
EVERYONE ON THIS MATTER BUT HE
HE DOESN'T EXPECT TO WIN OVER
CLEARLY IS BEING TESTED ON IT.
EVERYONE ON THIS MATTER BUT HE
>> HIS DISAPPROVAL RATING HAS
CLEARLY IS BEING TESTED ON IT.
ACTUALLY RISEN.
>> HIS DISAPPROVAL RATING HAS
>> OVER WHAT PERIOD OF TIME.
ACTUALLY RISEN.
>> IN JUNE 2012, 43 PERCENT SAID
>> OVER WHAT PERIOD OF TIME.
THEY DISAPPROVE OF HIS HANDLING
>> IN JUNE 2012, 43 PERCENT SAID
OF SYRIA AND THAT HAS RISEN TO A
THEY DISAPPROVE OF HIS HANDLING
MAJORITY SAYING THEY DISAPPROVE
OF SYRIA AND THAT HAS RISEN TO A
OF HOW HE IS HANDLING IT.
MAJORITY SAYING THEY DISAPPROVE
HE STILL HAS THE SUPPORT OF
OF HOW HE IS HANDLING IT.
DEMOCRATS IN HIS HANDLING BUT IT
HE STILL HAS THE SUPPORT OF
HAS FALLEN OFF AMONG REPUBLICANS
DEMOCRATS IN HIS HANDLING BUT IT
AND INDEPENDENTS.
HAS FALLEN OFF AMONG REPUBLICANS
WE'RE SEEING A SIMILAR THING,
AND INDEPENDENTS.
HIS OVERALL APPROVAL IS DOWN AND
WE'RE SEEING A SIMILAR THING,
IT'S RELATED TO CONCERNS OR
HIS OVERALL APPROVAL IS DOWN AND
RESERVATIONS ABOUT THIS POLICY.
IT'S RELATED TO CONCERNS OR
BUT HE DOES STILL HAVE PRETTY
RESERVATIONS ABOUT THIS POLICY.
GOOD SUPPORT, EVEN THOUGH A
BUT HE DOES STILL HAVE PRETTY
MAJORITY OF DEMOCRATS ARE
GOOD SUPPORT, EVEN THOUGH A
AGAINST TAKING MILITARY ACTION
MAJORITY OF DEMOCRATS ARE
IN SYRIA, HIS SUPPORT AMONG
AGAINST TAKING MILITARY ACTION
DEMOCRATS SEEMS TO BE STRONG AND
IN SYRIA, HIS SUPPORT AMONG
ALSO AMONG OTHER KEY GROUPS LIKE
DEMOCRATS SEEMS TO BE STRONG AND
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND
ALSO AMONG OTHER KEY GROUPS LIKE
MINORITIES.
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND
>> THE PRESIDENT, I ASKED HIM
MINORITIES.
WHETHER HE WOULD DO THIS AGAIN,
>> THE PRESIDENT, I ASKED HIM
GO TO CONGRESS AND HAVE THEM
WHETHER HE WOULD DO THIS AGAIN,
DEBATE IT, HE SAID ABSOLUTELY.
GO TO CONGRESS AND HAVE THEM
IS THIS SOMETHING AMERICANS
DEBATE IT, HE SAID ABSOLUTELY.
SUPPORT, BASICALLY HE HANDED
IS THIS SOMETHING AMERICANS
OVER HIS EXECUTIVE POWER, HE
SUPPORT, BASICALLY HE HANDED
SAYS IS IT HIS EXECUTIVE POWER,
OVER HIS EXECUTIVE POWER, HE
TO CONGRESS?
SAYS IS IT HIS EXECUTIVE POWER,
>> I THINK MOST POLLS SUGGEST
TO CONGRESS?
THE IDEA OF BRINGING IT TO
>> I THINK MOST POLLS SUGGEST
CONGRESS IS VERY POPULAR.
THE IDEA OF BRINGING IT TO
THERE'S KIND OF A "WHY-NOT"
CONGRESS IS VERY POPULAR.
FACTOR IN THE PUBLIC'S MIND AND
THERE'S KIND OF A "WHY-NOT"
GETTING MORE PEOPLE INVOLVED
FACTOR IN THE PUBLIC'S MIND AND
ISN'T NECESSARILY A BAD THING,
GETTING MORE PEOPLE INVOLVED
AT LEAST AT FIRST.
ISN'T NECESSARILY A BAD THING,
HOW LONG IT DRAGS OUT COULD HAVE
AT LEAST AT FIRST.
SOME EFFECT ON THATTITUDE.
HOW LONG IT DRAGS OUT COULD HAVE
AND WE FOUND THAT BY 2-1, PEOPLE
SOME EFFECT ON THATTITUDE.
ARE OF THE VIEW RIGHT NOW THAT
AND WE FOUND THAT BY 2-1, PEOPLE
WHATEVER CONGRESS SAYS SHOULD BE
ARE OF THE VIEW RIGHT NOW THAT
DECISIVE HERE.
WHATEVER CONGRESS SAYS SHOULD BE
IF CONGRESS SAYS NO THEY GET TO
DECISIVE HERE.
MAKE THE FINAL CALL.
IF CONGRESS SAYS NO THEY GET TO
THAT'S THE LEADING OPINION FOR
MAKE THE FINAL CALL.
THE PUBLIC.
THAT'S THE LEADING OPINION FOR
>> YEAR'S HEARING THAT, EVEN IF
THE PUBLIC.
CONGRESS WERE TO VOTE AGAINST
>> YEAR'S HEARING THAT, EVEN IF
THE PRESIDENT, THE IDEA THAT HE
CONGRESS WERE TO VOTE AGAINST
MIGHT OVERRULE THEM AT THIS
THE PRESIDENT, THE IDEA THAT HE
POINT IS NOT AN OPTION?
MIGHT OVERRULE THEM AT THIS
>> YEAH, I BELIEVE THAT IS THE
POINT IS NOT AN OPTION?
CASE IN THE POLLING.
>> YEAH, I BELIEVE THAT IS THE
AND OUR QUESTION WE ASKED
CASE IN THE POLLING.
WHETHER PEOPLE PREFERRED FOR
AND OUR QUESTION WE ASKED
CONGRESS TO VOTE FOR OR AGAINST
WHETHER PEOPLE PREFERRED FOR
THE RESOLUTION TO USE FORCE AND
CONGRESS TO VOTE FOR OR AGAINST
FOUND THAT 6 IN 10 SAID THEY
THE RESOLUTION TO USE FORCE AND
BELIEVE THAT CONGRESS SHOULD
FOUND THAT 6 IN 10 SAID THEY
VOTE AGAINST IT.
BELIEVE THAT CONGRESS SHOULD
>> IS THIS SOMETHING THAT IS --
VOTE AGAINST IT.
IS THERE A CONNECTION BETWEEN
>> IS THIS SOMETHING THAT IS --
THAT AND WHAT WE'RE HEARING.
IS THERE A CONNECTION BETWEEN
SOMETIMES IT SEEMS ANECDOTAL OR
THAT AND WHAT WE'RE HEARING.
AN ORGANIZED OPPOSITION.
SOMETIMES IT SEEMS ANECDOTAL OR
BUT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IN THE
AN ORGANIZED OPPOSITION.
NUMBERS AND YOUR POLLING ASK
BUT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IN THE
YOUR SURVEYS IS THAT THIS GOES
NUMBERS AND YOUR POLLING ASK
DEEPER THAN JUST THE ORGANIZED
YOUR SURVEYS IS THAT THIS GOES
OPPOSITION?
DEEPER THAN JUST THE ORGANIZED
>> YEAH.
OPPOSITION?
I BELIEVE IT DOES.
>> YEAH.
IT CROSSES PARTY LINES.
I BELIEVE IT DOES.
IT CROSSES MOST OF THE
IT CROSSES PARTY LINES.
DEMOGRAPHIC LINES THAT USUALLY
IT CROSSES MOST OF THE
DIVIDES THE PUBLIC ON ISSUE.
DEMOGRAPHIC LINES THAT USUALLY
IT'S A CONSISTENT OPINION ACROSS
DIVIDES THE PUBLIC ON ISSUE.
THE BOARD.
IT'S A CONSISTENT OPINION ACROSS
>> AND THE STRENGTH OF OPINION
THE BOARD.
RUNS VERY MUCH AGAINST GETTING
>> AND THE STRENGTH OF OPINION
INVOLVED IN SYRIA MILITARILY, BY
RUNS VERY MUCH AGAINST GETTING
3-1.
INVOLVED IN SYRIA MILITARILY, BY
45 PERCENT OF THE PEOPLE THAT WE
3-1.
INTERVIEWED OVER THE WEEKEND
45 PERCENT OF THE PEOPLE THAT WE
STRONGLY OPPOSE THIS ACTION.
INTERVIEWED OVER THE WEEKEND
ONLY 16 PERCENT STRONGLY FAVOR
STRONGLY OPPOSE THIS ACTION.
IT.
ONLY 16 PERCENT STRONGLY FAVOR
THAT'S HOW YOU CAN GET THAT TILT
IT.
IN THE E-MAILS AND LETTERS AND
THAT'S HOW YOU CAN GET THAT TILT
PHONE CALLS YOU'RE GETTING.
IN THE E-MAILS AND LETTERS AND
>> THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE, CAN
PHONE CALLS YOU'RE GETTING.
PEOPLE BE PERSUADED BY THAT?
>> THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE, CAN
ARE THEY PERSUADABLE?
PEOPLE BE PERSUADED BY THAT?
>> A WEEK AGO A QUARTER OF THE
ARE THEY PERSUADABLE?
PEOPLE SAID THEY WERE NOT SURE.
>> A WEEK AGO A QUARTER OF THE
THAT SOMEONE TO 9 PERCENT IN THE
PEOPLE SAID THEY WERE NOT SURE.
CURRENT POLL SO A CASE COULD BE
THAT SOMEONE TO 9 PERCENT IN THE
MADE THIS IS A DIRECT
CURRENT POLL SO A CASE COULD BE
CONVERSATION HE SHOULD HAVE HAD
MADE THIS IS A DIRECT
EARLIER.
CONVERSATION HE SHOULD HAVE HAD
BUT MOST OF THE PEOPLE THAT WE
EARLIER.
TALK TO, WHETHER THEY FAVOR OR
BUT MOST OF THE PEOPLE THAT WE
OWE POE IT RIGHT NOW, DO SEEM
TALK TO, WHETHER THEY FAVOR OR
AMBIVALENT RIGHT NOW.
OWE POE IT RIGHT NOW, DO SEEM
SUPPORTERS OF IT DO WORRY ABOUT
AMBIVALENT RIGHT NOW.
THE RISKS THAT IT COULD HAVE FOR
SUPPORTERS OF IT DO WORRY ABOUT
FUTURE SECURITY.
THE RISKS THAT IT COULD HAVE FOR
OPPONENTS OF IT, MANY OF THEM DO
FUTURE SECURITY.
UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO RESPOND,
OPPONENTS OF IT, MANY OF THEM DO
TO THE KIND OF RED LINE
UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO RESPOND,
ARGUMENT, SO THERE IS SOME
TO THE KIND OF RED LINE
AMBIVALENCE HE COULD WORK WITH.
ARGUMENT, SO THERE IS SOME
>> JENNIFER JENNIFER AND MICHAEL
AMBIVALENCE HE COULD WORK WITH.
DIMOCK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> JENNIFER JENNIFER AND MICHAEL
>> THANK YOU.
DIMOCK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> AMID THE OPPOSITION AMONG THE
>> THANK YOU.
PUBLIC AND IN CONGRESS, THERE
>> AMID THE OPPOSITION AMONG THE
WAS WORD THIS EVENING THAT THE
PUBLIC AND IN CONGRESS, THERE
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
WAS WORD THIS EVENING THAT THE
REID HAS DELAYED A TEST VOTE ON
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
AUTHORIZING MILITARY FORCE.
REID HAS DELAYED A TEST VOTE ON
HE SAID IT WOULD NOT HELP TO
AUTHORIZING MILITARY FORCE.
VOTE ON MILITARY ACTION WHILE
HE SAID IT WOULD NOT HELP TO
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS CONTINUE.
VOTE ON MILITARY ACTION WHILE
>>> IN OUR NEWS TODAY, THE
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS CONTINUE.
RESULTS
>>> IN OUR NEWS TODAY, THE
THE RESULTS OF SUNDAY'S ELECTION
RESULTS
FOR MAYOR OF MOSCOW WERE CALLED
THE RESULTS OF SUNDAY'S ELECTION
INTO QUESTION.
FOR MAYOR OF MOSCOW WERE CALLED
THE OFFICIAL COUNT SHOWED AN
INTO QUESTION.
ALLY OF PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
THE OFFICIAL COUNT SHOWED AN
BARELY MANAGED TO AVOID A
ALLY OF PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
RUNOFF.
BARELY MANAGED TO AVOID A
MOSCOW'S ELECTION COMMISSION
RUNOFF.
SAID INCUMBENT SERGEI SOBYANIN
MOSCOW'S ELECTION COMMISSION
HAD WON JUST OVER 50% OF THE
SAID INCUMBENT SERGEI SOBYANIN
VOTE.
HAD WON JUST OVER 50% OF THE
.
VOTE.
>> THE ELECTIONS WERE FALSIFIED.
.
I THINK THERE'S MORE THAN ONE
>> THE ELECTIONS WERE FALSIFIED.
INDEPENDENT OBSERVER WHO HAS
I THINK THERE'S MORE THAN ONE
RAISED DOUBTS OVER THIS.
INDEPENDENT OBSERVER WHO HAS
WE DO NOT RECOGNIZE THESE
RAISED DOUBTS OVER THIS.
ELECTIONS AND HE CAN'T CONSIDER
WE DO NOT RECOGNIZE THESE
HIMSELF THE MAYOR OF ALL.
ELECTIONS AND HE CAN'T CONSIDER
HE CAN'T CONSIDER HIMSELF
HIMSELF THE MAYOR OF ALL.
LAWFULLY ELECTED UNTIL HE AGREES
HE CAN'T CONSIDER HIMSELF
TO A RECOUNT OF THE VOTE.
LAWFULLY ELECTED UNTIL HE AGREES
>> Woodruff: NAVALNY SAID HE WAS
TO A RECOUNT OF THE VOTE.
MAINLY CONTESTING THE VOTE-FROM-
>> Woodruff: NAVALNY SAID HE WAS
HOME TOTALS, WHICH WENT
MAINLY CONTESTING THE VOTE-FROM-
OVERWHELMINGLY FOR SOBYANIN.
HOME TOTALS, WHICH WENT
RUSSIA'S MOST RESPECTED ELECTION
OVERWHELMINGLY FOR SOBYANIN.
MONITORING GROUP ALSO QUESTIONED
RUSSIA'S MOST RESPECTED ELECTION
THE ACCURACY OF THE RESULTS.
MONITORING GROUP ALSO QUESTIONED
IN BUSINESS NEWS, WALL STREET
THE ACCURACY OF THE RESULTS.
GOT THE WEEK OFF TO A BIG START.
IN BUSINESS NEWS, WALL STREET
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GOT THE WEEK OFF TO A BIG START.
GAINED 140 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
15,063.
GAINED 140 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE NASDAQ ROSE 46 POINTS TO
15,063.
CLOSE AT 3706.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 46 POINTS TO
A LONG-LOST VINCENT VAN GOGH
CLOSE AT 3706.
PAINTING HAS NOW BEEN
A LONG-LOST VINCENT VAN GOGH
DISCOVERED.
PAINTING HAS NOW BEEN
"SUNSET AT MONTMAJOUR" IS THE
DISCOVERED.
DUTCH MASTER'S FIRST FULL-SIZE
"SUNSET AT MONTMAJOUR" IS THE
CANVAS TO BE IDENTIFIED IN 85
DUTCH MASTER'S FIRST FULL-SIZE
YEARS.
CANVAS TO BE IDENTIFIED IN 85
THE LANDSCAPE PAINTING DATES
YEARS.
BACK TO 1888, AND WAS UNVEILED
THE LANDSCAPE PAINTING DATES
TODAY AT THE VAN GOGH MUSEUM IN
BACK TO 1888, AND WAS UNVEILED
AMSTERDAM.
TODAY AT THE VAN GOGH MUSEUM IN
IT HAD BEEN STORED IN AN ATTIC
AMSTERDAM.
IN NORWAY FOR SIX DECADES AFTER
IT HAD BEEN STORED IN AN ATTIC
ITS OWNER WAS TOLD IT WAS A
IN NORWAY FOR SIX DECADES AFTER
FAKE.
ITS OWNER WAS TOLD IT WAS A
THE MUSEUM'S DIRECTOR CALLED IT
FAKE.
A "ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME
THE MUSEUM'S DIRECTOR CALLED IT
EXPERIENCE."
A "ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME
>> IT HAS FROM HIS MOST
EXPERIENCE."
PROMINENT PERIOD IN HIS CAREER,
>> IT HAS FROM HIS MOST
FROM HIS PERIOD IN -- WHEN HE
PROMINENT PERIOD IN HIS CAREER,
WORKED IN THE OF FRANCE IN
FROM HIS PERIOD IN -- WHEN HE
PROVENCE AND IT'S DURING THE
WORKED IN THE OF FRANCE IN
PERIOD HE PAINTED THE SUN
PROVENCE AND IT'S DURING THE
FLOWERS, THE YELLOW HOUSE, THE
PERIOD HE PAINTED THE SUN
BEDROOM, HIS MOST FAMOUS WORKS.
FLOWERS, THE YELLOW HOUSE, THE
>> THE NEWLY DISCOVERED PAINTING
BEDROOM, HIS MOST FAMOUS WORKS.
>> Woodruff: THE NEWLY
>> THE NEWLY DISCOVERED PAINTING
DISCOVERED PAINTING WILL GO ON
>> Woodruff: THE NEWLY
PUBLIC DISPLAY AT THE VAN GOGH
DISCOVERED PAINTING WILL GO ON
MUSEUM BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 24.
PUBLIC DISPLAY AT THE VAN GOGH
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
MUSEUM BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 24.
OPENING UP ELITE COLLEGES TO
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS; AND THE
OPENING UP ELITE COLLEGES TO
FIGHT OVER GUNS IN COLORADO.
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS; AND THE
>> Ifill: NOW, OUR LOOK AT
FIGHT OVER GUNS IN COLORADO.
EXPANDING ACCESS TO THE
>> Ifill: NOW, OUR LOOK AT
COUNTRY'S MOST PRESTIGIOUS
EXPANDING ACCESS TO THE
UNIVERSITIES.
COUNTRY'S MOST PRESTIGIOUS
IT'S PART OF OUR FOCUS ON
UNIVERSITIES.
INEQUALITY IN AMERICA.
IT'S PART OF OUR FOCUS ON
THERE'S BEEN MUCH ATTENTION OF
INEQUALITY IN AMERICA.
LATE ABOUT RISING STUDENT DEBT
THERE'S BEEN MUCH ATTENTION OF
AND SOARING COLLEGE COSTS.
LATE ABOUT RISING STUDENT DEBT
BUT FOR SOME HIGH-ACHIEVING
AND SOARING COLLEGE COSTS.
STUDENTS FROM LOWER-INCOME
BUT FOR SOME HIGH-ACHIEVING
FAMILIES, THE PROBLEM IS EVEN
STUDENTS FROM LOWER-INCOME
MORE ACUTE: THEY RARELY EVEN
FAMILIES, THE PROBLEM IS EVEN
APPLY TO THE NATION'S TOP
MORE ACUTE: THEY RARELY EVEN
SCHOOLS.
APPLY TO THE NATION'S TOP
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON EFFORTS
SCHOOLS.
TO CHANGE THAT.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON EFFORTS
>> LET'S START WITH HOBBES.
TO CHANGE THAT.
>> Brown: 8:30 A.M. ON A SUMMER
>> LET'S START WITH HOBBES.
MORNING ON THE CAMPUS OF
>> Brown: 8:30 A.M. ON A SUMMER
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, AND THESE
MORNING ON THE CAMPUS OF
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS ARE ALREADY
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, AND THESE
ENGAGED IN A RIGOROUS DISCOURSE
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS ARE ALREADY
ABOUT POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY.
ENGAGED IN A RIGOROUS DISCOURSE
>> WE'RE PREDISPOSETOD
ABOUT POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY.
COMPETITION.
>> WE'RE PREDISPOSETOD
>> GOOD, GOOD.
COMPETITION.
WE'RE GETTING THERE.
>> GOOD, GOOD.
>> IT'S SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.
WE'RE GETTING THERE.
>> GOOD, GOOD.
>> IT'S SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.
>> Brown: ALEJANDRA RINCON, WHO
>> GOOD, GOOD.
GREW UP IN TEXAS-- JUST 15
>> Brown: ALEJANDRA RINCON, WHO
MINUTES FROM THE MEXICO BORDER--
GREW UP IN TEXAS-- JUST 15
IS AN HONOR STUDENT AT HER
MINUTES FROM THE MEXICO BORDER--
SCHOOL.
IS AN HONOR STUDENT AT HER
BUT SHE SAID SHE'D NEVER BEEN
SCHOOL.
EXPOSED TO ANYTHING LIKE THIS.
BUT SHE SAID SHE'D NEVER BEEN
>> BECAUSE I FELT THAT HE WAS
EXPOSED TO ANYTHING LIKE THIS.
TEACHING US SO MUCH AND IF I
>> BECAUSE I FELT THAT HE WAS
WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN HERE, WHERE
TEACHING US SO MUCH AND IF I
WOULD I HAVE LEARNED THIS?
WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN HERE, WHERE
>> ALEJANDRO?
WOULD I HAVE LEARNED THIS?
>> THE CLASS IS PART
>> ALEJANDRO?
>> Brown: THE CLASS IS PART OF
>> THE CLASS IS PART
AN INTENSIVE BOOT CAMP FOR 60
>> Brown: THE CLASS IS PART OF
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS FROM AROUND
AN INTENSIVE BOOT CAMP FOR 60
THE COUNTRY FROM INNER CITIES
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS FROM AROUND
AND RURAL AREAS-- STUDENTS WHO
THE COUNTRY FROM INNER CITIES
NEVER IMAGINED THEY COULD ATTEND
AND RURAL AREAS-- STUDENTS WHO
OR AFFORD AN IVY LEAGUE SCHOOL.
NEVER IMAGINED THEY COULD ATTEND
>> MY PARENTS ALWAYS SAID THAT
OR AFFORD AN IVY LEAGUE SCHOOL.
THESE SCHOOLS WERE FOR THE RICH
>> MY PARENTS ALWAYS SAID THAT
PEOPLE THAT CAN AFFORD IT.
THESE SCHOOLS WERE FOR THE RICH
SO I ALWAYS THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
PEOPLE THAT CAN AFFORD IT.
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO COME TO
SO I ALWAYS THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
THESE INSTITUTIONS.
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO COME TO
>> Brown: THE PROGRAM IS CALLED
THESE INSTITUTIONS.
THE "LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE FOR A
>> Brown: THE PROGRAM IS CALLED
DIVERSE AMERICA" "L--EDA," FOR
THE "LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE FOR A
SHORT.
DIVERSE AMERICA" "L--EDA," FOR
IT PROVIDES ACADEMIC TUTORING
SHORT.
AND HELP WITH THE ADMISSIONS
IT PROVIDES ACADEMIC TUTORING
PROCESS FOR STUDENTS ABOUT TO
AND HELP WITH THE ADMISSIONS
ENTER THEIR SENIOR YEAR OF HIGH
PROCESS FOR STUDENTS ABOUT TO
SCHOOL, AS WELL AS FOLLOW-UP
ENTER THEIR SENIOR YEAR OF HIGH
COUNSELING THROUGH FOUR YEARS OF
SCHOOL, AS WELL AS FOLLOW-UP
COLLEGE.
COUNSELING THROUGH FOUR YEARS OF
COSTS RUN ABOUT $23,000 PER
COLLEGE.
STUDENT, AND ARE PAID WITH
COSTS RUN ABOUT $23,000 PER
PRIVATE DONATIONS.
STUDENT, AND ARE PAID WITH
PRINCETON PROVIDES BOTH MONEY
PRIVATE DONATIONS.
AND THE FACILITIES.
PRINCETON PROVIDES BOTH MONEY
LEDA HAS AMBITIOUS GOALS: TO
AND THE FACILITIES.
NARROW A SOCIOECONOMIC GAP
LEDA HAS AMBITIOUS GOALS: TO
THAT'S BEEN WIDENING AT THE
NARROW A SOCIOECONOMIC GAP
NATIONS TOP COLLEGES.
THAT'S BEEN WIDENING AT THE
>> THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE LIVE
NATIONS TOP COLLEGES.
IN THE LAND OF EQUAL
>> THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE LIVE
OPPORTUNITY, BUT OPPORTUNITIES
IN THE LAND OF EQUAL
IN EDUCATION ARE NOT EQUAL FOR
OPPORTUNITY, BUT OPPORTUNITIES
ALL YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN WHO ARE
IN EDUCATION ARE NOT EQUAL FOR
STUDYING IN AMERICA TODAY.
ALL YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN WHO ARE
>> Brown: SHIRLEY TILGHMAN IS
STUDYING IN AMERICA TODAY.
THE FORMER PRESIDENT OF
>> Brown: SHIRLEY TILGHMAN IS
PRINCETON AND A BOARD MEMBER AT
THE FORMER PRESIDENT OF
LEDA.
PRINCETON AND A BOARD MEMBER AT
SHE CITES RECENT REPORTS SUCH AS
LEDA.
ONE FROM GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY:
SHE CITES RECENT REPORTS SUCH AS
JUST 14% OF STUDENTS AT THE MOST
ONE FROM GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY:
COMPETITIVE COLLEGES COME FROM
JUST 14% OF STUDENTS AT THE MOST
FAMILIES IN THE LOWER HALF OF
COMPETITIVE COLLEGES COME FROM
THE INCOME BRACKET, AND A MERE
FAMILIES IN THE LOWER HALF OF
5% COME FROM THE BOTTOM QUARTER.
THE INCOME BRACKET, AND A MERE
>> WHERE YOU WERE BORN, INTO
5% COME FROM THE BOTTOM QUARTER.
WHAT FAMILY YOU ARE BORN, WHAT
>> WHERE YOU WERE BORN, INTO
THEIR RESOURCES ARE TO A LARGE
WHAT FAMILY YOU ARE BORN, WHAT
EXTENT ARE GOING TO DETERMINE
THEIR RESOURCES ARE TO A LARGE
THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION YOU
EXTENT ARE GOING TO DETERMINE
RECEIVE, BEGINNING IN PRESCHOOL
THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION YOU
AND MOVING ALL THE WAY TO
RECEIVE, BEGINNING IN PRESCHOOL
COLLEGE.
AND MOVING ALL THE WAY TO
AND WHAT THIS IS GOING TO CREATE
COLLEGE.
IN AMERICA IS A DIFFERENT KIND
AND WHAT THIS IS GOING TO CREATE
OF ARISTOCRACY THAT'S GOING TO
IN AMERICA IS A DIFFERENT KIND
BE SELF-PERPETUATING, UNLESS WE
OF ARISTOCRACY THAT'S GOING TO
FIND WAYS TO BREAK THAT
BE SELF-PERPETUATING, UNLESS WE
JUGGERNAUT.
FIND WAYS TO BREAK THAT
>> Brown: AN "ARISTROCRACY"--
JUGGERNAUT.
STRONG WORD.
>> Brown: AN "ARISTROCRACY"--
BUT COMMENTATORS HAVE NOTED THAT
STRONG WORD.
SO MANY OF OUR LEADERS--
BUT COMMENTATORS HAVE NOTED THAT
PRESIDENTS, SUPREME COURT
SO MANY OF OUR LEADERS--
JUSTICES, WALL STREET, AND
PRESIDENTS, SUPREME COURT
CORPORATE HEADS-- COME OUT OF
JUSTICES, WALL STREET, AND
THE MOST ELITE SCHOOLS.
CORPORATE HEADS-- COME OUT OF
IN ADDITION, THE INSTITUTION A
THE MOST ELITE SCHOOLS.
STUDENT ATTENDS CAN HAVE LONG-
IN ADDITION, THE INSTITUTION A
TERM FINANCIAL CONSEQUENCES.
STUDENT ATTENDS CAN HAVE LONG-
GEORGETOWN RESEARCHERS FOUND
TERM FINANCIAL CONSEQUENCES.
THAT STUDENTS WHO GRADUATE FROM
GEORGETOWN RESEARCHERS FOUND
SELECTIVE COLLEGES WILL ON
THAT STUDENTS WHO GRADUATE FROM
AVERAGE MAKE $2 MILLION MORE
SELECTIVE COLLEGES WILL ON
OVER THEIR LIFETIME THAN THOSE
AVERAGE MAKE $2 MILLION MORE
ATTENDING NON-SELECTIVE ONES.
OVER THEIR LIFETIME THAN THOSE
OFFICIALS AT SCHOOLS SUCH AS
ATTENDING NON-SELECTIVE ONES.
PRINCETON HAVE LONG SAID THEY
OFFICIALS AT SCHOOLS SUCH AS
WANT TO RECRUIT A MORE
PRINCETON HAVE LONG SAID THEY
ECONOMICALLY DIVERSE POPULATION.
WANT TO RECRUIT A MORE
BUT OVERALL PROGRESS HAS BEEN
ECONOMICALLY DIVERSE POPULATION.
SLOW.
BUT OVERALL PROGRESS HAS BEEN
ONE PROBLEM: MANY LOW-INCOME
SLOW.
STUDENTS SIMPLY DON'T APPLY.
ONE PROBLEM: MANY LOW-INCOME
OFTEN THEY DON'T LIVE NEAR
STUDENTS SIMPLY DON'T APPLY.
CITIES WHERE COLLEGE RECRUITERS
OFTEN THEY DON'T LIVE NEAR
GO.
CITIES WHERE COLLEGE RECRUITERS
AND THEY RARELY HAVE ROLE MODELS
GO.
WHO'VE ATTENDED SUCH SCHOOLS AND
AND THEY RARELY HAVE ROLE MODELS
CAN GUIDE THEM THROUGH THE
WHO'VE ATTENDED SUCH SCHOOLS AND
PROCESS.
CAN GUIDE THEM THROUGH THE
LEDA-- LIKE SEVERAL OTHER NON-
PROCESS.
PROFIT GROUPS AROUND THE
LEDA-- LIKE SEVERAL OTHER NON-
COUNTRY-- TRIES TO PROVIDE THAT
PROFIT GROUPS AROUND THE
GUIDANCE.
COUNTRY-- TRIES TO PROVIDE THAT
Reporter: SO AN APPLICATION
GUIDANCE.
THAT YOU WORKED REALLY HARD ON
Reporter: SO AN APPLICATION
>> Brown: AN EXTENSIVE
THAT YOU WORKED REALLY HARD ON
RECRUITMENT PROGRAM SEEKS OUT
>> Brown: AN EXTENSIVE
PROMISING HIGH SCHOOL JUNIORS IN
RECRUITMENT PROGRAM SEEKS OUT
OVERLOOKED GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS,
PROMISING HIGH SCHOOL JUNIORS IN
AND BRINGS THEM TO A SIX-WEEK
OVERLOOKED GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS,
SUMMER SESSION THAT INCLUDES
AND BRINGS THEM TO A SIX-WEEK
CLASSROOM WORK, COLLEGE ESSAY
SUMMER SESSION THAT INCLUDES
TUTORING, AND TOURS OF A DOZEN
CLASSROOM WORK, COLLEGE ESSAY
DIFFERENT CAMPUSES.
TUTORING, AND TOURS OF A DOZEN
IT'S MADE HARRENSON GORMAN, WHO
DIFFERENT CAMPUSES.
LIVES WITH HIS MOTHER ON THE
IT'S MADE HARRENSON GORMAN, WHO
NAVAJO RESERVATION IN NEW
LIVES WITH HIS MOTHER ON THE
MEXICO, THINK ABOUT COLLEGE IN A
NAVAJO RESERVATION IN NEW
NEW WAY.
MEXICO, THINK ABOUT COLLEGE IN A
>> I JUST DIDN'T KNOW ANYTHING
NEW WAY.
ABOUT COLLEGE.
>> I JUST DIDN'T KNOW ANYTHING
I ALWAYS THOUGHT IT WAS LIKE
ABOUT COLLEGE.
HIGH SCHOOL.
I ALWAYS THOUGHT IT WAS LIKE
YOU GO THERE, YOU GET A DEGREE.
HIGH SCHOOL.
YOU GET A JOB.
YOU GO THERE, YOU GET A DEGREE.
>> DO PEOPLE AT HOME, FAMILY OR
YOU GET A JOB.
FRIENDS, EVEN THINK ABOUT COMING
>> DO PEOPLE AT HOME, FAMILY OR
TO A PLACE LIKE PRINCETON OR
FRIENDS, EVEN THINK ABOUT COMING
ANOTHER SELECTIVE SCHOOL?
TO A PLACE LIKE PRINCETON OR
>> I DON'T THINK THEY DO.
ANOTHER SELECTIVE SCHOOL?
A LOT OF PEOPLE IN MY COMMUNITY,
>> I DON'T THINK THEY DO.
THEY DON'T THINK THEY CAN GET
A LOT OF PEOPLE IN MY COMMUNITY,
ANY FARTHER THAN JUST COMMUNITY
THEY DON'T THINK THEY CAN GET
COLLEGE.
ANY FARTHER THAN JUST COMMUNITY
>> Brown: THE SAME IS TRUE FOR
COLLEGE.
NEBIYU KEBEDE, WHO IMMIGRATED TO
>> Brown: THE SAME IS TRUE FOR
MINNEAPOLIS FROM ETHIOPIA WHEN
NEBIYU KEBEDE, WHO IMMIGRATED TO
HE WAS TEN YEARS OLD.
MINNEAPOLIS FROM ETHIOPIA WHEN
NEITHER HIS FATHER-- A PARKING
HE WAS TEN YEARS OLD.
ATTENDANT-- NOR HIS MOTHER-- A
NEITHER HIS FATHER-- A PARKING
NURSING HOME ASSISTANT--
ATTENDANT-- NOR HIS MOTHER-- A
ATTENDED COLLEGE, ALTHOUGH
NURSING HOME ASSISTANT--
THEY'VE ALWAYS TOLD THEIR SON
ATTENDED COLLEGE, ALTHOUGH
THAT HE MUST.
THEY'VE ALWAYS TOLD THEIR SON
>> I'VE ALWAYS KNOWN THAT I
THAT HE MUST.
COULD GO TO A DECENT SCHOOL, BUT
>> I'VE ALWAYS KNOWN THAT I
THAT MEANT MY STATE SCHOOL.
COULD GO TO A DECENT SCHOOL, BUT
IT WASN'T AN IVY LEAGUE.
NOBODY EXPECTED YOU TO GO THAT
FAR.
AND BECAUSE NOBODY EXPECTED THAT
FROM ME, I REALLY DIDN'T EXPECT
THAT FROM MYSELF.
>> Brown: LOWER-INCOME STUDENTS
ARE ALSO AT A DISADVANTAGE,
BECAUSE OFTEN THEIR FAMILIES
HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO AFFORD THE
EXTRAS THAT TOP-TIER COLLEGES
INCREASINGLY LOOK FOR.
SHIRLEY TILGHMAN IS HAUNTED BY
THE STATISTIC THAT THE BEST
PREDICTOR OF S.A.T. SCORES IS
FAMILY INCOME.
>> WHAT THAT REALLY REFLECTS IS
THE FACT THAT RESOURCES-- NOT
WEALTH, NECESSARILY-- BUT JUST
GOOD MIDDLE-CLASS RESOURCES CAN
BUY QUALITY OF EXPERIENCE FOR
CHILDREN.
AND THEY LEAD TO STUDENTS WHO
>> Brown: WHEN JAKE MARTIN CAME
TO THE LEDA WORKSHOP, IT WAS THE
FIRST TIME HE HAD EVER LEFT THE
HAWAIIAN ISLAND HE GREW UP ON.
HE SAYS HE HADN'T CONSIDERED
ATTENDING ANYTHING BUT A STATE
COLLEGE BECAUSE HE ASSUMED HE
COULDN'T AFFORD ANYTHING ELSE.
>> IN MY FAMILY, COLLEGE IS NOT
A TOPIC THAT COMES UP AT ALL.
MY PARENTS ARE NOT SAVING MONEY.
THEY DON'T KNOW HOW TO PAY FOR
IT.
THEY JUST TALK ABOUT GETTING
LOANS.
AND I'M WORRIED.
I DON'T WANT TO COME OUT OF
COLLEGE GNG
>> Brown: THAT'S THE GOOD NEWS
FOR LOW-INCOME STUDENTS.
IN REALITY, THEY OFTEN PAY LESS
AT ELITE SCHOOLS THAN THEY WOULD
AT STATE SCHOOLS, SINCE MANY
OFFER GENEROUS FINANCIAL AID
PLANS.
AND THERE'S MORE GOOD NEWS: IF
THEY DO ATTEND A TOP-TIER
COLLEGE, 82% GRADUATE, COMPARED
TO JUST 49% OF TOP STUDENTS WHO
GO TO NON-SELECTIVE COLLEGES.
AYA WALLER-BEY IS ON TRACK TO BE
ONE OF THOSE GRADUATES.
SHE WAS A LEDA SCHOLAR FOUR
YEARS AGO, THEN WENT ON TO
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
SHE'S NOW A SENIOR, AND HAS BEEN
MENTORING OTHER STUDENTS FROM
HER HOMETOWN OF DETROIT.
>> THERE'S ACTUALLY TWO PEOPLE
FROM MY HIGH SCHOOL THAT WENT
THROUGH LEDA AND WHO ARE
CURRENTLY NOW AT GEORGETOWN.
SO I FEEL SPECIFICALLY CONNECTED
TO THEM, COMING FROM THE SAME
SCHOOL AND SAME CITY.
>> Brown: IS THIS NOW A SORT OF
TRADITION AT YOUR HIGH SCHOOL?
>> YEAH.
WE TRY TO START THIS PIPELINE OF
SCHOLARS TO ROLL THROUGH LEDA
AND COME TO GEORGETOWN AND OTHER
SCHOOLS.
SO HOPEFULLY IT WILL KEEP GOING.
>> Brown: NOW IN ITS 11th YEAR,
LEDA SAYS THAT SOME 75% OF ITS
SCHOLARS HAVE ENROLLED IN THE
NATION'S MOST COMPETITIVE
COLLEGES, INCLUDING 60 WHO'VE
ATTENDED PRINCETON.
A SUCCESS STORY, THEN, BUT ON A
VERY LIMITED SCALE.
AND SHIRLEY TILGHMAN SAYS FAR
MORE FINANCIAL AND OTHER SUPPORT
WILL BE NEEDED TO ADDRESS THE
LARGER PROGRAM.
THE STAKES, SHE THINKS, COULDN'T
BE HIGHER.
>> WHEN THE ABILITY TO HAVE
MOVEMENT ACROSS SOCIAL CLASS
BECOMES VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE, I
THINK IT IS THE BEGINNING OF THE
END OF A COUNTRY, BECA
EDUCATION IS SO CRITICAL TO
SUCCESS IN THIS COUNTRY, IF WE
DON'T FIGURE OUT A WAY TO CREATE
GREATER MOBILITY ACROSS SOCIAL
CLASSES, I DO THINK IT WILL BE
THE BEGINNING OF THE END.
>> Brown: IN THE MEANTIME, THIS
YEAR'S LEDA SCHOLARS HAVE GONE
HOME TO ATTEND THEIR FINAL YEAR
OF HIGH SCHOOL, KEEP UP THEIR
GRADES, AND PREPARE APPLICATIONS
TO TOP COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES, ONCE SEEMINGLY
BEYOND THEIR GRASP.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, YOU CAN FIND
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE LEDA
PROGRAM AND HEAR FROM FIVE
STUDENTS WHO DESCRIBE THEIR
EXPERIENCES SO FAR.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE DEBATE
OVER GUNS IN AMERICA.
SIX MONTHS AFTER GOVERNOR JOHN
HICKENLOOPER SIGNED A SWEEPING
GUN CONTROL MEASURE IN RESPONSE
TO THE SCHOOL SHOOTING IN
NEWTOWN, CONNECTICUT, AND THE
MASSACRE IN AN AURORA, COLORADO,
MOVIE THEATER, TWO COLORADO
STATE LAWMAKERS ARE FACING A
RECALL ELECTION TOMORROW.
FOR MORE ON THE TUESDAY VOTE,
WHICH IS ATTRACTING NATIONAL
ATTENTION AND MONEY, WE TURN TO
MEGAN VERLEE WITH COLORADO
PUBLIC RADIO.
>> WELCOME BACK TO "THE NEWS
HOUR."
FIRST OF ALL, TELL US, WHO
BEHIND THIS EFFORT TO GO AFTER
THESE LAWMAKERS AND WHAT STARTED
THIS WHOLE THING?
>> WELL, IT STARTED WITH A
PACKAGE OF GUN CONTROL
LEGISLATION THAT OUR GENERAL
ASSEMBLY PASSED LAST SPRING, AND
THE TWO MOST CONTROVERSIAL
ELEMENTS WERE UNIVERSAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR ALL GUN
SALES, WHICH CLOSED THE LOOPHOLE
FOR GUN SALES FOR PRIVATE
INDIVIDUALS AND THE LIMIT TO THE
SIZE OF AMMUNITION MAGAZINES TO
15 ROUNDS.
THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE THAT
ATTRACTED A LOT OF PUBLIC
ATTENTION.
THE RECALL STARTED AT THE
GRASSROOTS LEVEL PEOPLE IN
THESE DISTRICTS UPSET WITH THE
POLICIES BUT AS YOU MENTIONED,
VERY RAPIDLY ATTRACTED LARGE
OUTSIDE MONEY AND LOOKING AT
$3.5 MILLION SPENT IN THE
DISTRICTS SO FAR.
THE BULK OF THAT IS COMING FROM
PEOPLE OWE BODYING THE RECALL
AND SUPPORTING THE INCUMBENT
LAWMAKERS.
NEW YORK MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG
WHO IS BEHIND THE GROUP MAYORS
AGAINST ILLEGAL GUNS HAS
CONTRIBUTED ABOUT $350,000.
ELIBLOUGH, A PHILANTHROPIST
CONTRIBUTED ABOUT QUARTER
MILLION DOLLARS AND THE NRA HAS
PUT IN AROUND $350 SO FAR TO TRY
TO GET THESE STATE SENATORS
RECALLED.
>> WHO ARE THE STATE OFFICIALS
THEY'RE TRYING TO RECALL?
WHY DID THEY PICK ON THESE TWO?
>> WELL, ONE OF THEM IS OUR
STATE SENATE PRESIDENT JOHN
MORRIS, A HIGH TARGET WITH THIS
POLICY AND A LAWMAKER WHO REALLY
SPEARHEADED BOTH OF THESE BILLS.
THE OTHER ONE IS SENATOR ANGELA
HERON FROM PUEBLO IN THE
SOUTHERN PART OF THE STATE, AND
SHE WAS NOT PARTICULARLY ACTIVE
ON THIS POLICY, ALTHOUGH
SUPPORTIVE OF IT.
IN HER DISTRICT HE HAD OPPONENTS
TO GET ENOUGH SIGNATURES TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH THE RECALL EFFORTS.
THERE WERE RECALL EFFORTS IN A
COUPLE OF OTHER DISTRICTS THAT
DID NOT GET TO THE BALLOT.
STATE SENATE PRESIDENT MORRIS'
CASE HE COMES FROM A CLOSE LIR
DIVIDED DISTRICT AND ONLY WON
HIS ELECTION BY A COUPLE OF
HUNDRED VOTES.
>> RIGHT.
>> SO HE IS A HIGH-PROFILE
TARGET AND SEEN AS A VULNERABLE
TARGET.
>> SO GOVERNOR HICK.
>>   THE GOVERNOR HAD SUPPORT
BUT DID HE AND OTHERS PUSHING
GUN CONTROL MISREAD THE COLORADO
ELECTORATE?
>> I THINK WE'RE WAITING TO FIND
THAT OUT AND THE RECALL IS
OBVIOUSLY ATTRACTING HUGE AMOUNT
OF ATTENTION AND LOOKING FURTHER
DOWN THE ROAD.
HICKENLOOPER IS LOOKING FOR
RE-ELECTION AND HIS POPULARITY,
WHICH WAS HIGH EARLIER IN THE
YEAR HAS TAKEN A BIG HIT AND A
LOT OF THAT IS COMING FROM
VOTERS WHO SAID WE THOUGHT THIS
WAS A MODERATE GOVERNOR, WE
CONSIDERED HIM PARTISAN BUT
HIS -- WE SEE HIM AS PARTISAN,
AND HE IS LOSING SUPPORT.
>> HOW MUCH DISCUSSION IS THERE
IN COLORADO FOR HOW MUCH THIS
COULD SPREAD TO OTHER PARTS OF
THE COUNTRY, BECAUSE IT SEEMS TO
ME THAT'S WHAT THE OUTSIDE
GROUPS ARE LOOKING AT.
>> EXACTLY.
FOR SUPPORTERS OF GUN CONTROL,
THEY REALLY HAVE TO DIG IN THEIR
HEELS AND THROW MONEY AT THIS.
SO STIFFEN THE BACKS OF OTHER
POLITICIANS AROUND THE COUNTRY
THAT MIGHT BE CONSIDERING GUN
CONTROL LEGISLATION AND ARE
LOOKING TO COLORADO TO FIND OUT
IF YOU CAN HAVE A CAREER AFTER
THAT.
SIMILARLY IF YOU'RE A SUPPORTER
OF GUN RIGHTS, YOU REALLY WANT
TO SEE THE RECALLS SUCCEED
BECAUSE THAT SCENE IS PUTTING A
STOP TO GUN LEGISLATION
ELSEWHERE AND COLORADO BEING A
PURPLE STATE, A STATE WITH A
VERY RED CONSERVATIVE HISTORY,
THIS IS A MUCH HARDER
BATTLEGROUND THAN SOME OF THE
EASTERN STATES WHICH PASSED
ACTUALLY MORE RESTRICTIVE GUN
CONTROL LAWS IN THE PAST YEAR AS
WELL.
>> MEGAN VERTICALLY, COLORADO
PUBLIC RADIO.
THANK YOU.
IT'S A VOTE WE WILL ALL BE
WATCHING TORROOMW.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA STEPPED UP HIS
CAMPAIGN TO SUPPORT FOR MILITARY
ACTION AGAINST SYRIA.
>> ABOUT HAVING SYRIA TRANSFER
ITS CHEMICAL WEAPONS TO OUTSIDE
CONTROL.
HE TOLD "THE NEWS HOUR," IF
THERE IS A WAY TO ACCOMPLISH
THAT DIPLOMATICALLY, THAT IS
OVERWHELMINGLY MY PREFERENCE.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE PRESIDENT
PRESSED HIS CAMPAIGN TO WIN
CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT FOR THE
USE OF FORCE AGAINST SYRIA.
AND SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD WARNED ANY STRIKE AT
HIS RECOMMEND EEM COULD BRING
RETALIATION FROM SYRIAN ALLIES.
WITH OPEN ENROLLMENT FOR HEALTH
INSURANCE EXCHANGES JUST THREE
WEEKS AWAY, WHAT QUESTIONS DO
YOU HAVE ABOUT THE NEW SYSTEM?
WE'LL ANSWER THEM ON-AIR AND
ONLINE IN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUBMITTING YOUR
QUESTION ARE ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
AND IF YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT
FILING FOR SOCIAL SECURITY
EARLY, YOU MAY WANT TO
RECONSIDER.
OUR BENEFITS GURU CRUNCHES THE
NUMBERS ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
ADDRESSES THE NATION TO BUILD
PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR MILITARY
ACTION AGAINST SYRIA.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.